<text>
With the United States under constant threat of attack, not many people have a job as challenging as Janet Napolitano, the Homeland Security Secretary. ~~~ 
In this exclusive interview conducted during her official trip to Europe, we asked her about the close cooperation with European allies, and the safety of America.
She told us why the 9/11 attacks would be almost impossible today.
Nial O’Reilly, Euronews:
Madame Secretary, you’re here in Europe talking to your European partners about a range of security issues.
But I’d like to turn your attention first to a political issue, if I may.
In the forthcoming election Mitt Romney has said he will increase spending on defence and other issues, whereas the president says he will cut it massively – he’s committed to cutting it.
Wouldn’t America be safer under Mitt Romney?
US Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano:
I think security really needs to be a non-partisan issue – what is required to keep a country safe and to sustain that capability, and that is not just defence spending but also law enforcement and other types of security spending as well.
So, that’s what we’re focused on and one of the nice things about my position has been that the committee that oversees it in the US Senate (the Department of Homeland Security) is run on a fairly bi-partisan basis and it’s really focused on: What is the best organisation and how do we do this in the best way?
How do we deal with changing and evolving threats?
Most of Washington’s leadership believes they will reach such an agreement.
But if they don’t, and we have across the board cuts, then it will mean for us fewer screeners at airports, which means lines will be longer, means fewer port inspectors, which means lines will be longer, fewer border patrol officers – those are agents that police between border stations.
So it will have an impact on our current efforts vis-a-vis security.
Euronews:
Up to now how have you found the cooperation, the cohesion within Europe in terms of sharing information with the United States?
 ~~~ Napolitano:
We’ve had good cooperation with Europe and good cooperation with France.
Really, what we’re talking about is how we make that cooperation even more robust while recognising that there’s a need to protect privacy rights and civil liberties at the same time.
We just reached an agreement with the European Union to share advanced passenger information about airline passengers under certain circumstances.
The information is always shared but it is very protected so it doesn’t become public. ~~~ It is used for the purposes for which it is given.
Those are the kinds of things when we say information-sharing, that make our operators more effective, make our screeners more effective and ultimately make people safer. ~~~ 
Euronews:
Do you sometimes wish that you had more cohesion within the European states, because, you know, it’s 27 different countries, they’ve got different policies.
Would you like to see Europe advance to a common defence and security position where they could be more [like] one single partner for the US to deal with?
 ~~~ Napolitano:
Well, I think, you know, as we’ve gone on – and I’ve been the Secretary for almost four years now – I’ve seen movement in that regard, and I think it will take its natural course, but we deal with 50 different states of the United States, all of which have somewhat different rules and protocols and procedures and the like, so one of the things that we have to be able to do is be flexible.
Euronews:
The Department of Homeland Security was set up in the aftermath of 9/11, of course.
How has its progress grown?
How is the information-sharing going between the different security agencies in the US?
Are you satisfied that it is where it should be? ~~~ 
Napolitano:
Well, we’re never satisfied, because we’re never done.
The threats continue to evolve, we continue to deploy new and innovative technologies in order for us to better assemble and analyse data, but in terms of information-sharing within the department it’s so much better now than it was five years ago, and five years ago it was better than it was when the Department was started ten years ago.
Euronews:
There was almost a culture of rivalry between certain security agencies at the time of 9/11.
That has been eradicated – you’re confident … Would you say you’re confident that 9/11 couldn’t happen again for those reasons?
 ~~~ Napolitano:
I’m very confident about that.
I think the events that led to 9/11 with the current procedures and practices that we have in place now – not just within DHS (Department of Homeland Security) but with the FBI and others.
It would be virtually impossible to have a replication of 9/11.
That’s not to say we couldn’t have another style or another type of attack, which is what I mean when I say we can’t ever rest and say we’re finished.
Once we say that, our adversaries will find some other means of attack. ~~~ 
Euronews:
What’s your big concern? ~~~ In terms of foreign or domestic terrorism what keeps you awake at night?
Napolitano:
I would say two areas have deserved our sustained attention.
One is aviation – we had the episode of trying to put a cargo bomb on a plane out of Yemen.
There’ve been other attempts to try to blow up an aircraft, either by a passenger or by cargo. ~~~ So aviation and then cyber.
The different styles and the sheer numerocity of attacks occurring via cyber now … It’s the fastest-growing area that we’re dealing with. ~~~ 
Euronews:
How could a cyber crime affect the US?
What sort of potential effect could it have?
Napolitano:
There are many different styles, from what they call a D-DOS, Distributed Denial of Service Attack, which interferes, say, with the financial system or something of that sort, to a control system type of takeover where you actually try to take over the control system, say, of an electric utility, to major theft and theft of intellectual property or secret information, to child exploitation via the Internet. ~~~ 
Euronews:
Are those the kind of concerns – and I’ve read this – that [have led you not to] use email any more, is that true?
Napolitano:
Well, that is accurate.
I don’t use it in part because of personal preference and in part because I’ve got everyone around me who uses it.
But if I were to use it I would want to make sure I was practising very good cyber hygiene. ~~~ 
Euronews:
So we can get by without it, that’s your own personal message?
Napolitano:
You can get by without it and be quite happy, but it helps when you have a great staff, which is what I’m pleased to have. ~~~ 
Euronews:
Let me ask you about Iran, the situation with the nuclear facilities.
Israel has talked about, suggested, a pre-emptive strike.
Iran in response has talked about attacking US interests at home and abroad.
How do you counter a threat like that?
Napolitano:
I think that one of things that we are all experiencing is the different types and number of attacks that come from a variety of sources, some of which may be state-sponsored, some of which may not be, attribution often is a question.
We deal with those on an episode-by-episode basis, but our number one mechanism to do that is to quickly identify, share information and put in blocking or other mitigation effects. ~~~ 
Euronews:
President Obama famously held out the hand of friendship [to Iran] in his inauguration speech in 2008.
Will that attitude of openness exist in the next inauguration speech if he is re-elected, do you think?
I ask you as a Democrat. ~~~ 
Napolitano:
And as a US citizen … [my response is … ] Look, I don’t play ‘what ifs’ but I can say that efforts by Iran or other countries to become … possess nuclear weapons … shouldn’t be countenanced by any country of the world.
</text>
<text>
A senior adviser to Iran’s Supreme Leader has told euronews that Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s presidency has effectively come to an end with more than a year to go before the scheduled election.
After parliamentary elections earlier this month, Mohammad-Javad Larijani said the west should recognise that Iran has a new kind of democracy and defended the country’s controversial nuclear programme.
He reacted to the recent meeting between the leaders of Israel and the United States, where the possibility of military action against Iranian nuclear installations was discussed.
Mohammad-Javad Larijani, the Secretary General of the Iran High Council For Human Rights speaks to euronews reporter Jon Davies.
Mohammad-Javad Larijani: “ Putting myself in the place of the American people, it will be a bit disgraceful because to catch the heart of the American people to get the office, it seems that people are first going to get the heart of Netanyahu and AIPAC (the American Israel Public Affairs Committee) instead of the heart of the people.
 ~~~ “ It was a distraction from the mainstream issues that American politicians are confonting.
Iran’s nuclear programme is so transparent, everybody knows the reality of that.
So my reaction is that it was a political set-up to distract the attention of the people from focusing on economic issues which are very hard to resolve.
Neither the Democrats nor the Republicans have any viable programme to answer (the problems).
But anyhow, this accursed discussion of violence against a nation is unprecedented. ~~~ ”
Jon Davies, euronews: “ You say the nuclear programme is transparent, but even the Russians have said recently that Iran must keep its promise to allow international inspectors access to the nuclear programme, which didn’t happen earlier in February when the mission from the IAEA came back empty-handed having said that they were being refused and blocked along the way.
Where is the transparency? ~~~ ”
Mohammad-Javad Larijani: “ Monitoring is continuous over there.
The cameras are there.
The people are going.
And, well, ‘empty-handed’ is a bad word if they used it, because it depends on how they defined their mission.
Obviously they should define their mission beforehand.
They cannot wave their hands and say: ‘I want to go there and watch it’.
”
euonews: “ But in a transparent system, that would happen wouldn’t it?
”
Mohammad-Javad Larijani: “ Even in a transparent system, it doesn’t mean that they can give a telephone call and say they want to go to that place.
We agreed to transparency fully-fledged.
But the equation has two sides.
Transparency is expected from us, we expect co-operation from the other side.
We should have access to all non-military [aspects] of nuclear activities.
We should have the ability to enjoy the cooperation of other states.
We are deprived of all of that and they unilaterally ask Iran to be transparent.
It is so inconsistent.
euronews: “ So it sounds to me like you’re saying there is not complete transparency, because you’re not getting the other side of the coin … ”
Mohammad-Javad Larijani: “ No in fact, I want to say that transparency is on a spectrum. ~~~ It depends on what time, what thing is catching the eyes of the monitors.
For the nuclear reactor in Tehran, which we use to produce drugs and medical treatments for cancer patients, obviously we should be able to buy 20 per cent enriched [uranium].
 ~~~ Well, first they said we should swap it.
We said: ‘Fine.’ They said: ‘No, you should give all of your minimally enriched [uranium].’ It doesn’t make sense.
We want to use a nuclear reactor in Tehran which is totally for medical treatment. ~~~ 
So [we said]: ‘OK, forget about it, we made it and we used it.’
“ These are bad habits of the United States.
We do not accept the leadership of the USA.
This is an absolutely failed story.
But they can treat us like any other sovereign state, fantastic!
We can talk, we can deal, we can give and take.
We can do a lot of things, but no orders.
This leadership may be accepted by Germany, by Sarkozy and others, but definitely not by the Iranians.
“ The basic issue is obvious. ~~~ Iran is emerging as an influential power in the region, with a different social-political system.
We have our own democracy, not based on a secular liberal system but based on Islamic rationality.
And this experience which has been going for more than three decades is turning Iran from the stooges of the United States to a leading country in the area with the most advanced level of science and technology.
”
euronews: “ Could you explain that democracy, when opposition leaders are being held in detention and many candidates are not allowed to take part in an election.
What kind of democracy is that?
”
Mohammad-Javad Larijani: “ First of all, the opposition in Iran, I mean the reformists in Iran have about 40 seats in parliament.
Those who are in jail are definitely not there because of their political views.
It’s because they’re acting outside the legal structure.
To act in a civil society, we should respect the laws even if they don’t like the laws.
In Iran if somebody denies God or denies the legality of the Islamic system, then why should he be able to participate in an election, which by oath, is intended that somebody should come and work for the Islamic system.
euronews: “ Are you suggesting that Mirhossein Mousavi or Mehdi Karoubi have denied the existence of God?
”
Mohammad-Javad Larijani: “ No, I’m suggesting that they participated in a coup d’etat against this state in the last election.
It was not a campaign for the election.
They misused the election euphoria and at the end, even before the results came out they announced themselves as the winners and they asked the people to come onto the streets, bring the government down and create a new government.
This is, absolutely, a coup d’etat.
This is a great crime.
”
euronews: “ Have they been tried for it?
”
Mohammad-Javad Larijani: “ Well, they are under surveillance and the dossiers against them are being compiled.
In fact the government and establishment wants to play with them with soft hands.
It is not in the interests of such a great nation with confidence in its power to treat their mistake with the maximum penalty.
The system wants to try them with minimum penalty.
”
euronews: “ Where does President Ahmadinejad stand now after the elections?
Where is his powerbase now?
”
Mohammad-Javad Larijani: “ President Ahmadinejad is finishing his second term, so ‘c’est la fin’ for the presidency.
Obviously, according to the constitution, he cannot run again, so we are concentrating on the next election to pick among the candidates, and rally behind one of them and perhaps we’ll be successful.
”
</text>
<text>
A stark warning for Westerners comes as Mohamed al-Zawahiri, a former senior member in the Egyptian Salafist jihadist movement, speaking to euronews, has condemned French military intervention in the Mali conflict.
Our interviewee said his movement is not related to any acts of violence. ~~~ But his brother Ayman al-Zawahiri succeeded Osama bin Laden as head of the global militant Islamist organisation al Qaeda. ~~~ 
The brother, Ayman, has a US-25-million-dollar bounty on his head.
He is said to have spent 14 years in prison on terrorism charges but was ultimately acquitted last year by an Egyptian military court.
Our correspondent in Egypt, Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, spoke with Mohammed al-Zawahiri in Cairo.
Shaikhibrahim asked:
“ I understand that you have said that if French military action in Mali continues, the Salafist jihadists will condemn it and call for peace.
Do you have no strong message for the French government?
”
Mohammed Al Zawahiri said: ~~~ “ No.
As Muslims and not only Salafist jihadists, we must do everything we can … He among us who can speak, will speak.
He who can act with his hands, will also.
This is aggression.
Will I stay quiet if someone comes to attack and kill me?
That is unreasonable and unacceptable.
France lit the fire; it started the war, and if this continues, the first to burn will be Western people.
”
Our correspondent then asked whether al-Zawahiri considers that the foreigners who were working in the Algerian gas facility and did not participate in military operations in Mali bore any guilt, saying they were just workers and technicians.
Al-Zawahiri responded with questions: “ Who began this war?
Who started the aggression?
Who is behind the killing of those hostages?
It is the country which sent aircraft and troops to Mali. ~~~ ”
Al-Zawahiri further alleged that, “ the kidnappers did not kill them, but wanted to exchange them to stop the aggression.
” ~~~ He said: “ The country’s leaders do not want to show what they are in front of their people, so they decided to bomb everyone, a heinous crime. ~~~ ”
He said: “ Of course it wasn’t the kidnappers who killed them, but Algerian forces – on the instructions of the West.
”
On the basis of this belief, al-Zawahiri organised a demonstration last Friday outside the French embassy in Cairo.
He called for expulsion of the ambassador, the cutting of diplomatic ties and for support for the jihadists in Mali.
</text>
<text>
At the end of a donor’s conference just held for Mali, its president could count up three and a quarter billion euros in aid promises, some of the loans already in progress.
This comes four months after the launch of French military intervention aimed at driving Islamist forces out of northern Mali.
Dioncounda Traoré is its acting president.
Audrey Tilve, euronews: “ Mr President, thanks for being with us.
Mali had high expectations for this donors conference: more than three billion euros of financial assistance has been offered.
Those promises still have to be realised, but your hopes have been surpassed.
What assurances will you be giving that the funds will be well-used? ~~~ ”
Dioncounda Traoré, Malian President: “ You’re right in saying that everyone in Mali was watching this conference unfold, and that we really had our hopes lifted that we might benefit from international solidarity, and especially European solidarity, to begin putting into practice our programme to relaunch development.
euronews: “ You heard the French president ask that each euro be spent effectively and openly. ~~~ ”
Traoré: “ Yes, we are aware that our partners have gone to great efforts – the European and international communities – and the least that we can do is to make sure that both Mali’s taxpayers and other countries’ taypaxers are respected.
That’s the least we can do, and we’re going to see that each euro goes where it should go. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ French troops have started to withdraw.
A United Nations stabilisation mission is going to take over from them, with African soldiers staying in place.
This is no longer about carrying out offensives, there won’t be any more going out in search of the jihadists where they’re dug in.
And yet those fighters are still active; they’re carrying out attacks.
Can Mali be stabilised with the jihadists ready to ambush it all the time?
Traoré: “ Where it’s necessary, the UN troops can go over onto the offensive and track down the jihadists.
euronews: “ But are you preparing for a drawn-out conflict, perhaps guerrilla warfare as other countries have experienced?
Traoré: “ Yes, but you’ve seen that after they’ve been defeated on the ground, today they opt for suicide attacks, and we occasionally see a booby-trapped vehicle explode.
Obviously, that’s their way of doing things, it’s their way of fighting when they can’t fight in the conventional way any longer, and that’s why we have to expect this kind of activity.
But I believe we can handle that as well. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ There is also the case of the city of Kidal in the north, which is essentially held by the MNLA Tuaregs.
Are you going to have anything to do with them?
Is it possible to reach an agreement with a movement that had a pact with the jihadists early in the crisis?
Traoré: “ Yes, we’re obliged to talk with them, because in the first place we are compatriots, they’re Malians, and as soon as we talk about territorial integrity and national unity, by definition we have to talk with all Malians.
Those who are in Kidal, calling themselves the MNLA … well, we know that under today’s MNLA logo there’s a lot more than there was under the original MNLA.
There are people in it who came over from Ansar Dine, and so on.
But if they renounce going off on their independent way, and commit to respecting a secular state, and if they also subscribe to the electoral process, we are ready to talk with them about all the other questions which might interest them, which might provide them with solutions within a democracy, in decentralisation and many other solutions.
euronews: “ But what does that mean, exactly?
It’s true that the donors have stressed decentralisation a lot, but could that mean looking at some sort of autonomy for the Tuaregs?
Traoré: “ No.
I don’t think we’ll go that far.
We think that our decentralisation process provides everything that’s needed to settle the question of the north.
euronews: “ What, precisely, are the limits of this decentralisation?
Traoré: “ Well, you know that decentralisation hasn’t been completely put into practice.
It’s true that, in theory, lots of things are on the drawing board, but in practice we have encountered resistance.
We’re convinced that if decentralisation is done properly everyone will find it suitable. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ As transitional president, you have a substantial task ahead of you, and that’s to organise a presidential election.
The first round is scheduled for 28 July.
That’s one of the conditions the donors set.
That’s going to be very difficult because there’s so little time.
Isn’t there any way to convince the donors, France to begin with, to give you more time?
” ~~~ Traoré: “ We know it’s not easy, and we know this is a genuine challenge, but we wanted to show our determination to make the transition as short as possible, because Mali is facing so many serious problems.
The sooner the transition ends, the sooner it will be possible to tackle the real problems.
We have to understand that only an elected government with more legitimacy and more time can take care of the real problems of the country.
Therefore, it’s not a condition of the donors: we decided this, and we asked all our partners and friends to help us stick to the timetable.
euronews: “ Well then, how are you going to get the people in Kidal to vote?
How will you make the 300,000 people who have been displaced to the interior of the country vote?
How will you make the 175,000 refugees who have left to go to other countries vote?
How can you guarantee fair and irreproachable elections under these conditions?
”
Traoré: “ Well, ‘fair elections’ yes; ‘irreproachable elections’ I don’t think those have ever been seen anywhere, even where things are peaceful and secure.
But what I can say is that it’s not indispensable for the presidential election that all the refugees or displaced people return to where they came from.
The presidential election doesn’t need that.
There have to be … ”
euronews: “ You’d have to find them … ”
Traoré: “ That’s it.
Some people will come back but others will still be in other countries or displaced within Mali.
But as soon as they have their voter’s card they’ll be able to vote wherever they are.
We’re in the process of organising that.
We’re in contact with the countries where the refugees are living so that we’ll be able to organise the presidential ballot properly there. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Iran’s human rights record is under the microscope once again.
A recent UN report strongly condemned the lack of civil liberties in the country. ~~~ 
In an interview in Geneva, euronews’ Brussels correspondent James Franey spoke to Mohammad Javad Larijani, the head of Iran’s human rights council, about this and other key issues of the country’s domestic and international affairs.
euronews: “ Mohammad Javad Larijani, thank you very much for being here on euronews.
There’s been a lot of talk about Iran’s human rights situation.
There have been allegations of torture, of repression of political opponents, lots of serious allegations, not only from the United Nations, but also human rights organisations such as Amnesty and Human Rights Watch.
What’s your reaction to that? ~~~ ”
Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ I think that Iran right now is targeted, is falling victim of a new kind of terrorism.
I call it media and political terrorism.
In the [UN Human Rights] Council, if you look at the number of people who talked about Iran, more than 100 states expressed their views about Iran.
Something like 50 states, which are the United States and Europeans mostly, they criticised Iran.
The rest, which are over 70, they were very sympathetic to Iran. ~~~ 
“ For us, the world is not the United States, Britain and France.
We consider it globally.
Yes, these people make a lot of fuss and they are the flag leaders of human rights.
But the record of the United States is very dismal.
euronews: “ This idea that there is a bias against Iran doesn’t seem to be correct.
Because these same organisations for example, I mentioned: Amnesty, Human Rights Watch, they’ve been very critical of the United States and their response to human rights, especially with the issue of Guantanamo Bay.
There’s not really a bias against Iran, is there? ~~~ ”
Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ The governments who are criticising us, it is quite apparent that there is a quite politically structured criticism here; politically manipulated.
The second point comes to what is called NGOs. ~~~ 
“ There is the second point in the criticism against us.
And this is overlooking differences.
Our experience in the last 35 years is to create a political and civil structure, a polity as you call it in English, based on Islamic rationality, which is democratic, but it is not liberal, it is not secular.
euronews: “ You have the highest rate of executions per capita (globally).
As the head of the human rights council in Iran, are you proud of that? ~~~ “
Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ Not at all.
We are very much unhappy and uneasy about that.
And we are trying hard to change the laws, which are bringing that situation about.
As you know – and it’s been said several times – that more than 80 percent of these executions are stemming from narcotics drug-related crimes.
I think if we change the law on narcotics, 80 percent of our executions will be dropped.
This is a first, pragmatic stage for bringing down the executions. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ I’d just like to move on to talk about some specific cases.
There’s a Washington Post reporter Jason Rezaian, who has been detained for more than 100 days.
What has he done wrong? ~~~ ”
Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ Well, I am not in a position to judge, I am just reporting that the security officials filed against him charges that he was involved in activities beyond journalism. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ What does that mean?
” ~~~ Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ Well, involving activities which breach the security of the state. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ The last article he wrote before being detained was about how Iranians love baseball.
How does that threaten national security? ~~~ ”
Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ No, this definitely does not bring any charge against him.
euronews: “ Your brother is the head of judiciary.
He has the power to recommend that someone be pardoned to the Supreme Leader.
How likely is it will do you think that he will be released in the coming days? ~~~ ”
Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ First, there should the court proceedings.
Maybe the court will pardon him itself and totally drop all the charges, then everything is finished.
If not, he has been indicted, then the second line, the pardon line will start.
So we should go through this mechanism.
It doesn’t go straightforward.
” ~~~ euronews:: “ So we think that within a week or two … .
” ~~~ Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ Well, I anticipate in less than a month.
euronews: “ I just also want to move onto the case of Ghoncheh Ghavami, the British-Iranian lady who was protesting the right to watch a volleyball match.
She’s now been detained for more than 125 days.
She didn’t meet her lawyer until the lawyer came into court.
What happened? ~~~ ”
Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ The idea is not about participating in going to watch the match.
The idea is that she broke the relation in creating violence and creating a lot of fusses (sic – fuss) around … .you know, the places around where the matches are holding (sic – are held) are very volatile areas.
You have it in the western countries, a small act and huge violence will start over there.
euronews: “ But isn’t it a show of weakness that the Islamic Republic of Iran is so scared of a 25-year-old law graduate? ~~~ ”
Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ Not at all.
Why weakness?
We are very strong in pursuing our way of life and our regulations.
Suppose a person in the metro of London does something wrong, then the police will detain him.
This is not a weakness because we say the UK government is afraid; this is the way of law enforcement anywhere.
” ~~~ euronews: “ There are a lot of irregularities surrounding her case.
Her family say that it is tearing them apart.
Would you agree to meet with the family? ~~~ ”
Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ The door of my office is always open to meet the family of the accused, the family of the victim.
So definitely my office is open. ~~~ I think there is no irregularity in this case.
They can come and we will explain to them with expertise.
Their lawyers, also they come to our offices; we’ll explain it to them.
If we discover that there is irregularity, we are immediately going into that case, following that up and clearing that up.
” ~~~ euronews: “ So you are going to investigate this case?
” ~~~ Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ If we discover that there is irregularity, definitely we do that.
euronews: “ It would be unfitting if I was not to ask you about the nuclear negotiations which are ongoing with the P5+1.
Obviously it depends on the good faith of all sides, whether a deal is reached or not this month.
How likely is it do you think that a deal will be struck? ~~~ ”
Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ I am optimistic because I am aware that the Western community is coming to the conclusion that Iran should be considered one of the most capable countries in nuclear technology.
And Iran is delivering its obligations.
If these two are acknowledged up to any degree, I think we will reach some agreement … but proportional to that degree.
euronews: “ Politicians in the US and Israel, some certainly on the right, think that you want to build a bomb. ~~~ ”
Mohammad Javad Larijani: “ I think that the right politicians, the right-wing politicians, should go and see a psychiatrist.
I mean something is wrong with [their] mental status.
The world is not moving in the direction that they would like.
We are very much a strong country in the world and they cannot change it in the way they like.
“ It is the right time for those countries who claim to lead the world to equip themselves with ideas which are capable of leading the world.
This kind of suspicion and prejudice at the extreme are not capable of leading the world.
”
</text>
<text>
Senegal has once again just shown that where Africa is concerned, it is a little bit different.
It has just held a mostly peaceful and fraud-free presidential election.
And, after decades of one man in power a democratic transition can be a difficult thing to pull off, but Senegal appears to have done it, and has a new president, even if new is hardly the first epithet you would award this veteran of Senegal’s political scene.
So is Macky Sall a new broom who will sweep clean?
Euronews’ François Chignac, in an exclusive interview, found out.
François Chignac, euronews:
“ President Macky Sall, hello and thanks for speaking to euronews.
My first question is simple; you describe yourself as the president of ‘rupture’, a break with the past, but what does that mean for Senegal?
”
Macky Sall:
“ That means a virtuous, serious, but above all efficient government.
Putting public money into the population’s vital needs.
Living costs are very very high in Senegal while wages are low, and there are no jobs.
We have to make sure public money is better spent.
“ Today we have a social emergency, and that’s providing medical cover for everyone, and improving our UN Human Development Index by meeting its criteria on education, professional training, and apprenticeships.
But we also need a government that can attract investors and create jobs; that’s what rupture means for me.
”
euronews: “ Well, you talk about good governance but the violence of the last few weeks has shown the Senegalese people are increasingly impatient.
Are you going to ask the courts to investigate the alleged illegal acts of President Abdoulaye Wade, or drop the idea of an audit of past malpractice?
”
Macky Sall:
“ Neither one nor the other in fact, because when you are new to a powerful office the least you should do is check over things to see what you have to work with.
You have to see what shape things are in, what Senegal’s commitments are, what’s the level of the debt.
For example for several years it appears this has been growing exponentially.
We need to know what that implies for us, it’s above all that.
“ I’m not going to embark on a witchhunt, I don’t want that to be my guideline, but I will go through the books.
There will be an audit to find out the state of the nation, and where we need to take it.
”
euronews: “ So no sweeping the stables clean in the name of the people?
That’s what they are calling for … ”
Macky Sall:
“ Yes, there will be.
I said there would be an audit.
We’ll find out exactly what state the country’s in, and if we find anything criminal, then justice will go to work.
It’s not the president’s job to take revenge in the name of anyone; the courts do that.
We are a Republic, with procedures.
If the audit reveals the names of people who have done wrong then they will be brought to trial, and be able to defend themselves, normally, with due process, in a calm atmosphere.
”
euronews: “ You say you represent a rupture with the past so what do you say to your critics who claim you’re just the child, or the product of Abdoulaye Wade?
”
Macky Sall:
“ That’s not the question, the question is … well, yes, I did grow up in his shadow as a young party activist, and we fought alongside each other for 19 years, so I don’t have any problem recognising that Wade was my mentor.
But at a certain moment we fell out over the way of governing Senegal, and when that rupture was complete I took my political destiny in my own hands and formed a party.
I went out to meet the people, and three and half years later here I am.
Today I am a political leader, with a clear economic and social vision.
I know the priorities for this country after having seen its every far-flung corner, and I am committed to getting Senegal out of its under-developed state with the help of the majority of its people.
I am convinced the future is unwritten, and that if we work hard we can be an emerging, not an underdeveloped economy.
”
euronews: “ You were supported by the singer Youssou N’dour during the presidential elections.
He wasn’t able to stand. ~~~ Will he be your minister of culture?
”
Macky Sall:
“ You know, today Youssou N’dour is one of the best ambassadors Senegal could have for promoting the country’s image.
He’s internationally known.
I think he could have a decisive role to play in this government, whether in the Culture ministry or elsewhere.
If he wants to, why not?
”
euronews: “ Abdoulaye Wade and his government were heavily criticised for not doing enough to resolve the conflict in Casamance, where a guerrilla war continues.
The army suffered losses there recently, and tourists are sometimes caught in the crossfire.
Will you solve this problem?
”
Macky Sall:
“ This is Senegal’s toughest problem.
It’s lasted 30 years; 30 years of destruction, death, and spilt blood.
It’s high time to moblise all our national resources to make a sustainable peace in Casamance.
I will make my number one priority the creation of the conditions that can produce a national dialogue between all the parties concerned; the guerillas, Senegalese civil society, and friendly neighbouring countries who are in fact caught up in the conflict because their territory is being used by the rebels, either in Gambia or Guinea Bissau.
“ In parallel with the peace efforts we’ll speed up our development efforts in Casamance.
We’ll try and open up the region to overcome Senegal’s geographical split between north and south, where to get to Casamance you have to cross sovereign Gambia.
We have to resolve this territorial rupture.
In one phrase, we want Casamance to find peace again within a united and indivisible Senegal.
”
</text>
<text>
Rafael Nadal is regarded as one of the best tennis players of all time.
 ~~~ At the age of 26, Nadal has won eleven Grand Slam singles titles, including an all-time record seven French Open titles.
 ~~~ He made a triumphant comeback in March after recovering from a knee injury, which kept him away from the courts for almost eight months.
After a stunning victory at Indian Wells, the Spanish left-hander is getting ready for his European tour and Roland Garros, his favourite tournament. ~~~ 
His goal now is to work hard on recovering his world number one title. ~~~ 
David Martín Gutíérrez, euronews: “ We are joined by one of the best sportsmen in the world.
Rafa Nadal, welcome to euronews.
The first question I have to ask you is: how is your knee?
”
Rafael Nadal: “ Well, it seems to be getting a bit better every week.
I hope this will continue so I can do better and improve my chances of winning.
”
euronews: “ It’s not so common, coming back after a long break the way you did, and winning tournaments.
What’s your secret?
”
Rafael Nadal: “ I don’t know … Luckily things have gone really well.
It’s true that in the first two tournaments I took part in, I did well, but not really that well.
But since the Acapulco tournament, I started playing really well and my knee was much better.
Then, I played and won several matches, in a way even I couldn’t have imagined in such a short period.
”
euronews: “ So, we could say that your first victory of the season has been your comeback … ”
Rafael Nadal: “ Well, from my point of view, the most important victory was the 100% recovery of my knee, more than the comeback.
This is a long-term victory, more satisfying than short term ones.
Clearly, the first step to recovery was to resume competing.
I did that, and it seems that it’s going better, week after week.
”
euronews: “ Did anyone give you advice, following your injury, about changing your style?
”
Rafael Nadal: “ The truth is that I’m not so good at changing my style, just like that.
Every one has his own style, and I do what I can to improve every year.
I’ve done that in my career, and obviously I think I’ve improved – I’ve turned out to play in a more aggressive way.
But to drastically change your style, I think that’s quite impossible.
”
euronews: “ Before you got injured, you were in top shape.
Do you think you can get back to that level?
”
Rafael Nadal: “ That’s my goal, and if my knee allows me, for sure I’ll work hard at it.
I don’t think that in seven months I have forgotten how to play tennis.
When I came back, I played at a good level.
I suppose it won’t be that easy to regain the confidence, the level, and the rhythm I had last year – when I was forced to quit, after Roland Garros.
It requires hard work, and that’s what’s nice in sport: to have great goals, that you can achieve by working, fighting and outdoing your achievements.
That’s why, when you reach your goals, you’re happy ” .
euronews: “ What separates you from the world’s top players, Djokovic, Federer and Murray?
”
Rafael Nadal: “ I don’t know, it depends what we’re talking about.
If we’re talking about points, we can see it in the ranking.
If we’re talking about the level, I’m not sure exactly where I stand today.
And I don’t know whether I’m at the right level to compete with them.
We’ll find out in the coming weeks, we’ll find out whether I’m able to face these players, who are the best in the world.
”
euronews: “ Do you think it’s a realistic goal for you to reconquer your world number one title in the near future?
Rafael Nadal: “ I don’t know, I can’t answer that.
All I know is that I’m in Monte Carlo right now, I’m happy to be back in competition and my aim is to compete for the rest of the year, in good shape.
If that is the case, we’ll see next year whether I succeed in becoming world number one again.
But I don’t think it’s a priority at this point in my career.
”
euronews: “ Monte Carlo, Barcelona, Rome, Madrid … Is Roland Garros the main goal this year, though?
”
Rafael Nadal: “ The goal right now is Monte Carlo.
I want to play well here, and when this is over, whatever happens, I’ll have to play well in Barcelona.
”
euronews: “ You have said repeatedly that the thing that hurt you most was to miss the London 2012 Olympic Games, where you were supposed to be the standard bearer.
Will you be in Rio, carrying the flag for Spain?
”
Rafael Nadal: “ That is my long-term goal, for sure.
I want to be at the next Olympic Games.
I don’t know if I’ll be the one to carry the flag, as I was supposed to be in London last year.
The truth is that I would have been happy to do it, but I couldn’t, and I hope I’ll be able to do it in Rio.
There are a lot of Spanish athletes, though, who are really qualified to be standard bearer.
”
euronews: “ Do you know that, for the third year running, you’ve been elected the person most Spaniards would like to hang out with and drink a beer?
At least you haven’t lost the people’s support … ”
Rafael Nadal: “ Well, I’ll be happy to go and have a drink with each one of them, in a responsible manner, I really appreciate the support of my fans every day.
In these seven months away from tennis courts, their support was really strong, stronger than ever.
And now that I’m coming back to competition, I feel the support from fans all over the world, especially from Spain.
It’s a good reason to be satisfied and gives me energy to continue fighting and being where I am.
”
euronews: “ Well, if you go out for a drink with an ‘average’ Spanish person, you know that you’ll have to buy the beer, because the situation right now in Spain is not good.
As a sportsman, what do you think of Spain’s economic situation?
”
Rafael Nadal: “ Obviously it’s a sad situation.
Seeing a lot of people suffering is hard.
Each one of us is affected by this situation, directly or indirectly.
We are not foreign to the reality of people all around us.
In these last years, a lot of people have been through hard times, and I want to support them.
By working together, every day, and with the will to reach the end of this tunnel, that we’ve been living in for some years, we will come out the other side and see the light again soon.
I’m sure this will be the case, as Spain is a great country.
”
</text>
<text>
The past five years have been extremely eventful for NATO’s Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen.
Now as he approaches the end of his mandate, euronews spoke to him about the alliance’s future.
Andrei Beketov, euronews: How do you assess the security situation in Europe over the past months?
Anders Fogh Rasmussen: “ The security environment has changed dramatically.
Russia’s illegal military actions in Ukraine are a wake-up call.
They have reminded us that we can not take security for granted.
So of course we have to adapt to this new situation. ~~~ ”
euronews: President Putin said this week that he had no right to let NATO forces into Crimea.
That’s why it was annexed.
Did you take into consideration this sort of Russia’s security concerns?
Rasmussen: “ Yeah, but we never had any intention to deploy NATO troops to Crimea.
There is no excuse.
Russia is in blatant breach of all its international commitments and also in breach of the fundamental principles of NATO-Russia cooperation.
euronews: How do you see Russia’s involvement in eastern Ukraine?
And what about the armed stand-off there?
Rasmussen: “ There is no doubt that Russia is heavily involved in destabilising the eastern part of Ukraine.
They allow a flow of weapons and equipment and also fighters across the border into Ukraine.
We call on Russia to stop supporting the separatist groups.
And we call on Russia to withdraw troops from the Russia-Ukraine border.
We have seen recently a new build-up of Russian troops in the border region.
euronews: Is NATO boosting its presence in the vicinity of Russia?
Rasmussen: “ We have enhanced air policing over the three Baltic states, deployed naval vessels to the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea, we have conducted more exercises in Poland and the Baltic states.
So, at sea, in the air, on the ground you see more NATO presence.
It’s not offensive, it’s purely defensive with the aim to ensure effective protection of our allies. ~~~ ”
euronews: How would you describe Russia; as a partner or now more as an adversary?
Rasmussen: “ Actually we have spent more then 20 years trying to build a constructive relationship with Russia.
But I have to say that Russia doesn’t behave as a partner.
And we can see in the Russian military documents that they consider NATO an adversary, so of course we have to adapt to that.
euronews: What lessons can be learnt from Russia’s military tactics vis a vis Ukraine?
Rasmussen: “ We have seen Russian armed forces act very swiftly.
We have seen more modern Russian armed forces compared to what we saw when they attacked Georgia in 2008.
And this is a reason why I urge NATO allies to increase defence spending and step up modernisation of our armed forces.
During the last five years Russia has increased its defence spending by 50 percent while NATO countries in average have decreased their defence spending by 20 percent.
Of course that’s not sustainable.
What we have seen in Ukraine is a game changer.
And it’s now time to stop the cuts, reverse the trend and gradually increase defence spending.
euronews: How do you assess the security situation in Europe?
What sort of a threat do you think is coming from the Sunni insurgent group that has captured parts of Iraq and Syria.
What can NATO do about it?
Rasmussen: “ Again, NATO is focused on defence and protection of our allies.
That’s why we have deployed Patriot missiles to Turkey to protect Turkey against possible missile attacks from Syria.
But, of course in general, the situation in the region is a matter of grave concern.
It is publicly known the Iraqi government has requested assistance from individual NATO allies. ~~~ ”
euronews: We can see aircraft from Iran and from Russia operating alongside Americans.
Does it mean that NATO is already working with these countries?
Rasmussen: “ It’s not NATO as an alliance, but individual NATO allies are engaged.
What you see now is really how much the international community as such is concerned about this situation and the spread of extremism and terrorism.
It requires a unified response from the international community across traditional lines of division.
euronews: Now, the final question to you as an outgoing NATO Secretary General.
What was your main achievement?
Rasmussen: “ We have a stronger, fitter and faster NATO.
Despite cuts in defence budgets you see a much stronger alliance today.
Because of our operations in Afghanistan, Kosovo and elsewhere our armed forces are now used to working and operating together, they are more tightly connected then ever and more combat ready then we have ever seen.
At the same time we have invested in new capabilities.
Among other things we have started building missile defence.
We have decided also to strengthen our cyber defence.
So all in all we have, I would say, cut fat and built muscle.
So you see a much stronger NATO today. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Belgium is providing Europe’s highest proportion of jihadist volunteers to join the fighting in Syria and Iraq , official figures tell us — in proportion to Belgium’s population: some 200 are currently in the conflict region, and 100 have returned.
Belgian special forces recently broke up a strike cell preparing an attack in Belgium.
We talk to the Foreign Minister about counter-terrorism efforts, Ukraine and Greece.
Audrey Tilve, euronews: “ Didier Reynders, your country, along with France, is especially concerned by the threat of terrorism.
We’re going to talk about the means involved, but first, how do you explain that Belgium is one of the main hotbeds of jihadism in Europe?
”
Didier Reynders, Belgian foreign Minister: “ We’re in a country that has diverse communities of significant size, but we are also working daily to identify the jihadists.
I don’t know, statistically, if every country goes about this work in the same way.
So I hope that all the countries in Europe keep track as closely as we do, which allowed us just a few days ago to carry out police operations and intercept groups before they went into action, which is essential.
We keep a close eye on them, and that is probably what makes the difference: we are quite accurate in identifying the people who present a risk.
”
euronews: “ Several European countries have presented a pile of proposals aimed at predicting or repressing terrorism, for example by taking away the passports of jihadists or candidates, their ID cards or even nationality.
We also hear talk about giving schoolchildren courses in secular citizenship.
We get the impression of measures papering over the cracks.
Is all this really effective?
”
Reynders: “ Taking away passports and ID cards is very important — a substitute card is provided for identification, that’s what we want to do — taking away these means of travel.
It prevents people from moving around freely in case they are clearly indicated as dangerous.
This is as it should be.
And you raise the point about radicalisation.
There, we have to take action with real means.
In prisons, isolation is also effective.
”
euronews: “ To group fanatics all together, you think that’s a good solution?
”
Reynders: “ Of course, absolutely, specific enclosures to prevent them from contact with younger or other inmates who would otherwise become strongly radicalised in prison.
”
euronews: “ But full contact among themselves.
”
“ Not necessarily, you can have isolation systems in cells.
They mustn’t contaminate the others.
That’s the first measure to take.
The second is education, that is setting out how to learn … ”
euronews: “ Can providing citizenship classes compensate for parents’ failure to educate?
Can it prevent indoctrination?
”
“ There are two things we have to do at home, and it’s not the same in Belgium as in France, not the same as in other countries.
For us, we have to be far more involved in education also through how imams are trained.
In Belgium we don’t have specific education for those who practise and are, even more importantly, in charge of the Muslim religion, such as exists in Catholicism or secular morality.
The other facet is young people.
Our country has something we’ve inherited through our history.
Religion is taught in schools.
But in an official school, the pupils split up to take classes in the different religions.
Manifestly, what we have to do is to keep them together in class and try to talk to them not only about citizenship but about the history of religions, about their capacity to live together even when we have different convictions.
But those aren’t solutions for avoiding an attack next week.
Those are solutions that might take several generations, to repair, which is true, the failures that have been committed in the way living together has been organised among several communities.
”
euronews: “ We’ve heard some Muslim countries citing the plight of the Palestinians, Iraqis and Afghans to put the attacks in Paris into relative terms.
There is a real overlap between these crises, the fate of these peoples and the balancing of our societies.
Will that not move along development of politics in Belgium, and of European politics dealing with emblematic cases such as the Israeli-Palestinian conflict?
”
Reynders: “ I wish there were a stronger European Union presence in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
We have hung back too often, leaving the Americans to take the lead.
We have to work together.
But first the Israelis and Palestinians need to talk to each other again.
What happened in Paris is different.
Journalists were killed because they expressed themselves freely, through caricature.
Police officers were killed because they represented authority.
But the Jews were killed simply because they are Jews.
”
euronews: “ Let’s talk about Ukraine, the attack on Mariupol.
Europe hoped that Russia’s economic difficulties would force Vladimir Putin to bend his position, but no way.
What sort of way out do you see for Ukraine, if at all?
”
Reynders: “ More pressure needs to be brought on Russia.
We’ve used economic sanctions and sanctions on individuals and companies.
We have to do that while keeping channels open for discussion with Russia.
”
euronews: “ It’s been a year since the start of trying to open up a dialogue, and not much has come of it.
More than 5,000 people have been killed in Ukraine.
”
Reynders: “ We must keep up the strongest pressure possible on Russia, as we’ve been doing.
”
euronews: “ Is partitioning Ukraine still taboo?
That is what’s been happening, Putin achieving his enlarged New Russia.
”
Reynders: “ That’s what he wants to do.
We want Ukraine to form back together again, taking all its parts into account.
Probably, some people don’t feel represented, and didn’t, by power concentrated in Kyiv in the past.
So there is a lot of work to do there.
But that doesn’t rule out maintaining Ukrainian territorial integrity and sovereignty.
”
euronews: “ About Greece, which is at the centre of Europe’s attention at the moment.
the new government is going to ask its European partners to erase part of its debt and allow it to pay the rest back over more time, freezing interest payments for a while.
Is Belgium ready to accept some of these requests?
”
Reynders: “ The first thing is that Greece, whatever its government is, has to keep its commitments.
What we expect first of all from the new Greek government, is that it respect this.
”
euronews: “ Meaning?
”
Reynders: “ It means returning to healthy accounts.
If the new government comes asking for longer reimbursement periods, if we’re going to be able to accommodate that, it is always possible … ”
euronews: “ So, ‘yes’ to spreading payments out but ‘no’ to writing off part of the debt?
”
Reynders: “ Simply ‘no’ to calling into question all the commitments Greece has made itself.
A government must respect what has been agreed.
”
euronews: “ You were minister of finance for a long time.
You know that 180 percent debt is unsustainable and that if no concessions are granted, in the end Greece will default on its payments to the detriment of its creditors, who are mainly European states, therefore the European taxpayer.
Is that what we want?
”
Reynders: “ What strikes me the most in the current debate is that Greece is being lined up in opposition to Europe.
It’s not Europe facing Greece, it’s all Europe’s taxpayers.
When one asks, ‘are you ready to erase Greece’s debt?’ it means asking a Frenchman, a German and a Belgian to pay what Greece owes.
That’s not the way we work, I believe.
Even the International Monetary Fund has strongly diluted Argentina’s debt or others’, but that is in asking for a return to balance in the end, to be capable of reimbursing one day.
That’s the balance that has to be found.
It’s up to the new government to tell us what they ask but also what it’s prepared to do within Greece itself.
”
</text>
<text>
There are nearly 25 million unemployed in Europe, of whom more than 17 million are in the eurozone.
One in five young people in the EU cannot find a job, that is nearly five million youngsters.
In some countries the rate of youth unemployment exceeds 40 percent.
To open the interview euronews reporter Fariba Mavaddat reminded Guy Ryder, the newly elected Director of the United Nation’s International Labour Organisation, the ILO, of what he said in his inaugural speech in May: “ It is a tremendous opportunity in the middle of this global crisis to make a difference to the lives of millions of people.’‘ So, how does he intend to do that?
Guy Ryder: “ Well, you have described the drama of the European unemployment crisis and I really believe it is dramatic.
What I said in my inaugural speech was that the ILO, if it is to be a success, has to touch the lives of these people.
We can do it through working with the ILO member states. ~~~ It is a world organisation with 185 member governments.
We can do it through them, we can do it through cooperation activities, technical cooperation in a variety of ways, we can do it by trying to influence the international policy agenda, so that we can get the growth and job creation back into the world economy that is so badly missing at the moment.
 ~~~ “ I think the ILO has a role in all of these areas and I intend to do my best to ensure that we fulfil that role.
euronews: “ You called on various governments for cooperation, but to what extend do you have authority ?
Do you have teeth, and how sharp are they?
”
Guy Ryder: “ Like many international organisations we have to make a case for doing what we consider to be ‘the right thing’, offering people not only the opportunity of a job but what we call a ‘decent’ job; a job which pays at a level which offers you a decent standard of living.
euronews: “ That’s all very well, but it is the ideal world.
What is happening in Europe in particular, is that governments and businesses are spreading jobs thin.
That is, jobs are now being made available, if at all, on a temporary, part-time basis , but this creates not only uncertainty and insecurity but also social unrest and eventual poverty.
How are you going to address that particular problem?
These are the only jobs available.
”
Guy Ryder: “ You are quite right to point out not only the number of jobs we need to create but their quality.
 ~~~ “ You know, temporary part-time jobs can have their place in a well-functioning labour market, but they have to be taken up as a choice, not as obligation in the absence of a full time secure job. ~~~ 
“ We have a situation – particularly in Europe but around the world – where countries are having to look at their finances.
We have been through the ‘hole’ of the financial crisis.
This has left very big holes in public budgets, and often it is these worlds of work, the labour market which is having to feel the effects of austerity measures.
 ~~~ “ I think we have to review this austerity path that we are on.
I think the stage we have reached today shows that there is a need for a new start.
 ~~~ “ Secondly, we have to prepare people for the world of work, we have to look at skills development for young people.
We need specifically targeted plans.
I would go for a universal youth guarantee that says any young person in that situation would be offered either job experience or further training when they leave school. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ That’s very logical but the fact of the matter is that we are in a recession, there are no financial resources available.
It is so bad that governments are nibbling off old people’s pensions.
So for all this that you are talking about, you need financial resources, and they just don’t have it.
”
Guy Ryder: “ Oh, they do.
I would argue that they do.
Let’s take this example of the youth guaranteed scheme. ~~~ It actually is a very cheap option for governments.
Our estimates are that for 0.5 percent of overall government spending, you can provide a youth guaranteed scheme for all young people of this nature. ~~~ 
“ It is not that expensive, you put your hand in your pocket.
Past experience in countries like Sweden, countries like Finland, shows that these schemes are successful.
They pay for themselves very, very quickly.
Look at it as an investment not a cost, and you can move in the right direction.
euronews: “ You are talking about training.
Training has a limited life span.
That is, you go on training for a year or six months and then at the end of it it’s ‘Thank you very much, go home’.
And the youth who has been trained, and whose expectations have gone up, ends up at home with no job.
Guy Ryder: “ It can work that way.
That would be a failed experience.
But experience shows that these things can give a much higher success rate than what you are indicating.
I take the Swedish example which I quoted to you earlier on. ~~~ They show that just under 50 percent of young people who went into those guaranteed schemes secured a permanent self-sustaining job.
When they left the scheme, they went into a permanent job which was commercially viable.
That is to say, work for a company, they weren’t subsided.
“ I have just come from the European Union Employment Conference where these ideas are receiving very, very positive and focused attention.
I think we are going in the right direction partly because I think people understand that with the levels of youth unemployment that we have today in Europe we do need change.
I think policy makers know that we can’t carry on in the same direction. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ These are small steps in the right direction, but by no means ideal.
Here they have started talking about the ‘lost generation’.
I’d go further than that and I talk about ‘lost generations’ because once one generation fails, then the following generations will fail as well.
What we are talking about here is time.
European governments are offering limited opportunities for training to a limited number of people and then expect the generation to lift itself up.
There simply aren’t enough opportunities, and we are talking about lost generations.
”
Guy Ryder: “ I think the rhetoric – if I can call the matter the lost generation – is real.
All the evidence shows that if the school leavers are out of the labour market for a year or more, it is very difficult for them to get back in; or if they do get back in, they get back in in very disadvantaged conditions.
And it affects the whole trajectory of their working life right through the decades.
 ~~~ “ So, the rhetoric of the lost generation is accurate.
What I am saying with the youth employment schemes – it has to offer the opportunity to every young school leaver.
It isn’t enough and you are quite right, it is not enough to pick up a few here and a few there and hope that that will make a difference.
We need an all-encompassing policy. ~~~ 
“ Now, this is all well and good, but we also need an economic environment where the economy begins to grow, where jobs are genuinely being created.
I do understand very well that you are not going to create through special schemes permanent effective solutions within an economic situation where we are shrinking and shrinking and shrinking.
So you need a favourable environment – and honestly we don’t have it today.
euronews: “ The ideal situation that you described will take time to arrive.
How do you see the future?
” ~~~ Guy Ryder: “ It will take some time to get to where we need to be – which is to restore high levels of unemployment in Europe.
It will take a long time, but that doesn’t mean we should delay beginning.
 ~~~ “ The Chinese say a long journey starts with one step.
That first step has to be taken, and today.
In the employment conference from which I have come, we got extremely strong messages; political messages from the top level of the EU. ~~~ 
“ European politicians understand the situation is urgent , the situation is dramatic and action has to start now.
So there is no time to lose even if the results take time to come through. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
As the use of chemical weapons tips the Syrian civil war into unchartered territory, euronews spoke to the country’s deputy foreign minister, Faysal al-Mikdad.
euronews: “ After 10 years of the Iraq war, now we have Syria under focus.
There are threats especially from the US and France to bomb against Syria.
How is this impacting on Syria and the Syrian government?
”
Faysal al-Mikdad: “ The goal of colonialism was always to weaken the Arabs against Israel. ~~~ 
“ It is not a war yet but an aggression and the principle goal of this aggression is to eliminate all the potential military force of Syria as happened with Iraq and has been happening with Eygpt. ~~~ 
“ The government of Syria is ready to confront this war and aggression. ~~~ 
“ This war has no reason but to show that the colonialist powers – US and especially France – are supporting al-Qaeda, al-Nusra and “ the Islamic state of Iraq against the Arabic people of Syria.
”
Click on this link to watch Part One
Click on this link to watch Part Two
euronews: “ But John Kerry talked about proof of chemical weapons use by the Syrian army? ~~~ ”
Al-Mikdad: “ This proof is ridiculous and I am laughing. ~~~ 
“ I was the ambassador for Syria to the security council when Colin Powell showed us a bottle of white powder claiming it was proof of chemical weapons the Iraqi regime was about to use against its people.
 ~~~ “ Later we found out it was allegations without basis.
But half a million or more Iraqis were killed as a consequence of these allegations.
And the US did not apologise for this.
” ~~~ “ They repeat the same trick.
They lie when they talk about this crime claiming that the responsibility was on the Syrian government.
 ~~~ “ They are the ones who give the chemical weapons to their allies in Syria, who are the terrorist groups.
 ~~~ “ The US decided to support them when they start to see them being defeated.
”
euronews: “ What is the Syrian proof that your army did not use chemical weapons?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ We said publically that Syria will not use these weapons against its own people.
“ At this moment Syria had the UN team and they were only 100 metres from the site where the American secret services and the West claimed that there was use of chemical weapons.
“ So I confirm that these are just lies.
They want only to rescue themselves from defeat to put Syria into the hands of Israel. ~~~ 
“ As I said before Israel is the reason for all that is happening now in Syria and the whole Arab region.
“ The powers of the Muslim Brotherhood, fundamentalists and al-Qaeda have been created by these western countries and by their actions they are serving the goals of colonialism in the Arab region.
”
euronews: “ But we saw pictures on the internet and television, showing families and children who were burning from the gas and chemical weapons.
Did you see these reports in Damascus?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ We are sad when we see these pictures and reports.
“ We said, and I hope it will be clear for everyone who is watching, that the terrorist groups used the gas of sarin in Aleppo. ~~~ 
“ And we have the proof that these terrorist groups hit our soldiers with chemical weapons near Damascus in the same areas where the US and their allies claim that the Syrian army used them.
 ~~~ “ We confirm the people who used the chemical weapons were agents of the secret services of US and their allies.
It is the secret services who fabricated this story with Bandar Bin Sultan who is a spy for the US and the western secret services. ~~~ 
“ Syria is innocent of all these allegations – our morality doesn’t allow us to commit such crimes.
It could be that the pictures are genuine but who used the chemical weapons are the criminals and the terrorists backed by the US, France and others.
“ al-Nusra and al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups said that they have the potential to make chemical weapons.
Turkey arrested a terrorist group which had 2kg of chemical materials from Libya.
The Iraqi government arrested people who were about to manufacture more chemical materials.
This is public knowledge.
”
euronews: “ Does that mean you are accusing directly Saudi Arabia?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ I accuse everyone who finances and arms the terrorist groups in order to commit these crimes.
They are the ones responsible for the bloodshed in Syria.
Saudi Arabia is the main player.
”
euronews: “ What will be the consequences of the potential bombing in Syria?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ We will not stand by and watch what the US and its allies will do in the region.
The whole region will be affected by what will be happening in Syria.
”
euronews: “ Can the Syrian government confront this kind of bombing, which will target sensitive and strategic sites?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ We do not have the capacity to confront the American military machine.
But we will resist and we will defend our dignity and the honour of the Syrian citizens and the Syrian territory.
”
euronews: “ What kind of consequences could there be for Israel and Turkey by the bombing?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ I am now talking to all the people of the world and saying that any kind of bombing or aggression in Syria is just giving support and victory to al-Qaeda and al-Nusra, without reference to any principles or values.
 ~~~ “ The UN charter, as formulated by the founding fathers including the US, forbids states to act outside of the security council’s resolutions.
It doesn’t allow states to violate international security and peace.
”
</text>
<text>
“ A symbol of the peaceful fight against sexual violence, poverty and discrimination, ” is how the jury of the Asturias Awards described Caddy Adzuba in awarding her its Concord Prize, the Spanish royal foundation’s equivalent of the Nobel Peace Prize. ~~~ 
Adzuba is a journalist and rights campaigner whose crusade against sexual violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo has won worldwide acclaim.
She spoke to our correspondent Leire Otaegi about her work and experiences in an exclusive interview.
Leire Otaegi, euronews: “ Your career is marked by a commitment to combating sexual violence.
What do you remember about the first interview you did with a female victim of sexual violence? ~~~ ”
Caddy Adzuba: “ I couldn’t finish the interview.
The first time was in 2000.
I met a woman in the field and I was very eager to learn what had happened, to learn what this woman had endured.
I handed the microphone to the woman and she looked me straight in the eyes.
She didn’t want to talk.
I pushed her, saying it’s very important.
She looked at me and said: ‘Are you sure you want to hear?
You think you can take it?’ I said, ‘of course’.
“ After she talked to me for two minutes I got up and left.
I didn’t say goodbye, I didn’t say thank you to this woman.
I just simply got up and left.
I fled.
Because what I had expected were things I knew about before, but I’d never heard a victim talk about them, a victim explain what had happened.
So I fled. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ And in what way did you change after that interview? ~~~ ”
Adzuba: “ After that interview I swore to do everything I could do, everything I could do with the little knowledge I had, with the little I could contribute to making the lives of these women better.
I couldn’t do anything because I didn’t have major resources.
I had nothing but a microphone with which to speak out, to denounce … and to make known to the world what had happened to these women.
euronews: “ What path does a victim follow to stop being a victim, to stop being seen as a victim? ~~~ ”
Adzuba: “ First of all she needs time.
And time doesn’t just mean one day, two days, not a month, not two months, not five months, and, unfortunately, it is not two years.
Unfortunately, it means many years, five years, six years, or even ten years.
They are physically destroyed, torn, traumatised, tortured.
“ She must be healed.
That’s the first thing; physical healing.
After that, she must be de-traumatised, with psycho-trauma counselling sessions.
“ And after that, if it goes well, she’ll have group therapy, other therapies in social life, for her socio-economic reintegration.
After that you have to work on those around her, to accept her back into the society from which she’d been banished, from which she’d been chased.
 ~~~ “ And finally she must reintegrate economically, that’s also very important.
Often these women are reduced to poverty because they have lost everything. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Can healing ever by complete without justice? ~~~ ”
Adzuba: Impossible, no.
Unfortunately, there’s no complete healing without justice because the perpetrators continue to be free and at large; the ringleaders, the guilty continue to roam freely, and when traumatised women, when women who experienced these things continue to see the people who caused their trauma, it’s a further source of trauma for them.
And not just for them, for all of us, for all of society.
” ~~~ euronews: “ You’ve been threatened for speaking out against sexual violence and you’ve even had to leave your country because of these threats.
How do you live and work with this fear?
Adzuba: “ If I’ve been threatened it’s because I did something, I provoked the perpetrators, I provoked the system.
But these women, who did they provoke?
No one.
They’ve done nothing but they’ve been the victims of the worst atrocities we could ever imagine.
And that’s what gives me courage.
It’s true I’m scared.
It’s true that I’ve received texts saying, ‘if you continue you’re going to get two bullets in the head’.
I am scared.
But anyone who wants to kill you isn’t going to send you a text.
He’s going to kill you directly.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Who holds the key to a stable and lasting peace in the Democratic Republic of Congo? ~~~ ”
Adzuba: “ Everyone, everyone.
Peace is a universal question.
Peace is the first issue of the leaders who are directly linked to the people and who are obliged to protect the people.
I’m thinking of the Congolese government.
“ The responsibility also lies with Congolese civil society to continue to support this government so it can do its job better.
It’s also the responsibility of the region, the entire Great Lakes region, all the DRC’s neighbours also are responsible in one way or another to what’s happened in the DRC.
“ It’s also the responsibility of the African continent, the African states, the African Union which has to know its own responsibilities and solve its own problems.
“ The responsibility goes beyond borders, across oceans to what we call the international community.
The Congolese conflict was more an economic conflict.
There have been several reports that have cited and criticised multinationals that have been involved directly or indirectly in the financing of armed groups purely for their own economic interests. ~~~ 
“ Following from that, six million Congolese have been killed, more than 500,000 women have been victims of sexual violence.
So the responsibility is shared, and everyone must answer for these acts.
That is justice. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ The history of the country is marked by war but also by the constant struggle of women for peace.
What can we learn from the struggle of Congolese women here in Europe, where you’ve just been awarded the Asturias Prize.
Adzuba: “ Europe, in fact, lives in a state of naiveté, if I may say so, even with all the information it has, it still sees Africa as just a poor continent, the Third World; Africa is war, Africa is disease, Ebola.
They don’t see that in Africa there are men and women of courage, men and women who can get things moving, and take a stand against atrocities.
Europe has to change how it sees things in Africa.
Europe has to change it policies towards Africa.
It’s very important. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Said Kamali, euronews: “ On the eve of the presidential election in Iran, with municipal polls planned at the same time, on 14 June, we’re speaking with Bernard Hourcade.
We will talk about the aftermath of the highly controversial elections in 2009, which saw clashes in the streets between protesters and government forces … as well as today’s tough questions surrounding Tehran’s nuclear ambitions, and unprecedented international economic sanctions against Iran.
“ You’re the head of France’s National Centre for Scientific Research, specialising in Iran, and you’re also a professor of Geography at the National Institute of Oriental Languages and Civilisations, in Paris.
What does a presidential election in Iran mean for you?
”
Bernard Hourcade: “ It’s often said that elections serve no useful purpose, and that they’re rigged, and it’s often true.
But something special about Iran is that we never know the result they’ll bring – even though the institutional framework is fairly restricted.
The political stakes and debate are important, and I think it’s an important event for the future of the country, though it’s not exactly comparable to elections in France, Belgium or Spain.
”
euronews: “ As you’re aware, 686 people of all sorts registered to run for the presidential office; that was open to the public.
The rules say it’s enough simply to show your birth certificate, copy of your ID, 12 ID-type photos, and be age 18 or over.
Does that make sense to you?
Why hold the door open to the public like that?
”
Hourcade: “ Part of it’s propaganda.
The government and the constitution allow all citizens to be candidates, and that’s a very good thing.
But also: the people really want to take part.
Since the 1979 Islamic Revolution, Iranians have participated in political life.
There are crackdowns sometimes, but they take part.
There’s undeniably a political dynamic.
Iran has political debate, and so this time there are 636 candidates; in 2001 there were 1,075 I think.
Often there are three, four or five hundred.
The main problem is that then the Constitutional Guardians Council goes in and chooses the candidates, ruling out 99 percent of those who registered, and keeping just, say, ten of them, maximum.
The criteria are obviously quite variable.
”
euronews: “ After what happened in 2009, what marks this election apart?
Obviously, there were the 2009 riots, then four years of heavy economic sanctions against the country, and the constant nuclear question.
So, how is this election different, compared with others?
”
Hourcade: “ They’re about maturity.
For the past 34 years, every day we’ve said ‘the Islamic Republic is about to collapse!’ Well, it’s still there.
It’s the most stable government system in the Middle East. ~~~ We see that especially after the Arab Spring.
It’s a country that can move forward.
We always talk about the Supreme Leader getting his own way; it’s more complicated than that.
There are checks on power in Iran.
The current reformer who is talked about … the symbolic Green Movement in 2009 wasn’t a movement; it was a very strong dynamic in society, but it wasn’t organised; there is no Green political party or institution.
And so Iranians who demonstrated against Ahmadinejad in 2009 found themselves all alone, getting beaten, or imprisoned or shot.
”
euronews: “ Among the key issues for the country – the regime, actually – is, evidently, the nuclear question.
Said Jalili, the chief nuclear negotiator, is himself a candidate for the presidency. ~~~ He said recently that whoever the future president is, Iran’s policy won’t change, and its enrichment of uranium will not be broken off.
What are your expectations for the regime’s nuclear policy?
”
Hourcade: “ When it comes to relations with the United States over the nuclear programme, it will be the same policy.
Everyone in Iran agrees, left and right, that Iran has the right to enrich uranium.
Even Israel’s [Benjamin] Netayahu agrees, saying ‘not more than 20 percent’ – meaning he’s okay with the 3.5 percent enrichment that Iran is asking for.
France’s [Laurent] Fabius said it would be all right if Iran agrees to enrich under international oversight.
Those who don’t agree are western countries who want the Iranian regime to fall, and so are unwilling to negotiate.
For the first time, the Iranians are ready to talk seriously, and we know that in the US, notably – not so much France, but the US is essential – they want to find a solution to the Iranian nuclear question which is polluting the Middle East at a time when the war in Syria and the Arab Spring are raising fundamental questions.
I am very optimistic that, however the Iranian elections turn out, the Americans and the Iranians agree they have to find a way out of this crisis, which is poisonous for everybody.
”
euronews: “ Are you optimistic about the sanctions?
Because they’re really a problem now. ~~~ ”
Hourcade: “ Exactly.
It’s now up to western countries that have imposed bilateral sanctions, United Nations sanctions, to lay out how to lift them gradually.
This is obviously indispensable if both sides are to reach an agreement.
It can’t just be up to Iran to accept without receiving anything in return.
Therefore, removal of sanctions and a normalisation between Iran and the US are the keys: if Iran and the US decide, everything else will flow from that.
This is currently on the table.
Both sides are saying they’re talking about the conditions of talks; in other words, they agree in principle.
”
euronews: “ They tried with the reformist Khatami, and it didn’t work.
”
Hourcade: “ In 2003, when the Europeans and Iran signed an agreement, the Americans were against it.
They wanted the regime to fall, and so nothing got done, because the west couldn’t agree about a solution among themselves.
There was a second problem in Iran: Khatami and Khamenei didn’t agree.
We know very well that Ahmadinejad reached a deal on the nuclear question with the US three times, but Khamenei wouldn’t go along.
Now, if the president and the Supreme Guide in Iran are in the same camp, have the same policy, their power will be united.
That doesn’t mean it’ll be paradise, but at least there won’t be internal division, and the western side – the United States – can now impose its will on Iran, because the economic crisis imposes a certain consensus.
”
euronews: “ Let’s turn to political life within Iran, with everything that’s happened between the Supreme Guide and outgoing President Ahmadinejad.
How do you see Ahmadinejad’s political future after all the problems he’s had with the Guide?
”
Hourcade: “ We’ve been mistaken about Ahmadinejad, a lot.
He’s not at all the ultra-conservative madman; he’s not a conservative – quite the contrary, he’s dynamic, perhaps reactionary … But he’s a hyper-active person.
He enacted economic reforms in Iran which were very hard but which won the praise of the International Monetary Fund.
Several times he went after a nuclear deal with the US.
And what I see today in Iran, is that there’s going to be opposition from the people in the provinces, small cities, the countryside, from people who feel they’ve been somewhat ignored and the aristocracy of the revolution – whether that’s the reformers, conservatives or former Guardians of the Revolution who have been the establishment in the Islamic Republic.
We might have a second phase coming today, of a social separation and a revolution, or a change which is going to concern an opposition from Iran’s disinherited and a sort of aristocracy or bourgeoisie that has got a lot richer over the years.
”
</text>
<text>
Two months have passed since Iran and Western powers signed an agreement in Geneva which would put an end to Iran’s decade long nuclear crisis.
Less than a day after that, Iran and the US started squabbling over the terms of the agreement as to who is committed to what. ~~~ Dr.
Mohammad Jvad Zarif, Iran’s Foreign Minister, spoke to euronews about the problems.
euronews: “ Dr.
Zarif, what’s wrong with the agreement?
Why are you squabbling over it with the US?
” ~~~ Dr.
Mohammad Jvad Zarif: “ We are not, we are actually sticking to the letter of the agreement.
That’s why we didn’t produce any fact sheets.
We believe it is important for us to use this opportunity to build confidence.
euronews: “ Hardly a week passes in which you wouldn’t say that no we continue with our nuclear programme and America would say, ‘No, they are not allowed to do this, they are not allowed to do that’.
So immediately after the press conference at the end of the Geneva negotiations – I was there – you said that we are going to continue with our nuclear programme, then Mr.
Kerry came and said they are not allowed to continue with their programme.
”
Zarif: “ The agreement is very clear.
There are certain parts of the Iranian nuclear programme that will continue; there are certain parts that … I mean..
the enrichment over five percent, that we have agreed not to continue.
”
euronews: “ So the ‘hoo-ha’ is for internal consumption? ~~~ ”
Zarif: “ I have tried to remain very true to what we agreed and not to try to ‘spin’ it for domestic consumption, that is why I didn’t produce any fact sheets.
It wasn’t an attempt by Iran to win at the expense of the other side because we believe that is not sustainable.
And now we have agreed that on February 18 we will meet in Vienna to start working on the difficult part, that is the comprehensive deal.
euronews: “ Right.
In return for a partial cut to your nuclear programme, you are now receiving the seven billion dollars Iranian assets frozen in America, in tranches, is that right?
”
Zarif: “ There are sanctions relief.
Of course we did not believe from the beginning that these sanctions were legal, because this is our money and there is no international legal instrument that would prevent us from having access to our money.
There is some cash that will become available, there are other areas, for instance revenues from petrochemical sales by Iran.
So, that amounts to some amount of money, but I am not going to quarrel about the exact dollar figure because it’s just the beginning and we will start knowing how much it will come to when it comes to the end of the six months.
euronews: “ So in short, you are receiving tranches of your own money but not in cash often.
What’s dictated to Iran is: we release this amount of money in return for sending you our goods at the price that we decide.
”
Actually we can take some of this money in cash, and the rest in open letters of credit with whoever we want to purchase.
It is not … I don’t like to be dictated to and I will never accept anything dictated to me … .
”
euronews: “ But they have put a cap on oil exports … ” ~~~ Zarif: “ They had put a cap on oil exports previously.
They agreed not to increase the cap. ~~~ As I said, these sanctions were illegal to begin with, but we are dealing with a world that is not run by legality.
It is a world, unfortunately, where American political muscle and economic muscle usually go to persuade countries and the private sector … ”
euronews: “ Do you see yourself as a victim?
”
Zarif: “ I see the international community as a victim, because we have allowed might to be able to overcome right.
But that’s the fact and I am not going to quarrel about that.
It is a situation where we want to move ahead and establish a different type of relations with the international community.
As you know, we came into office only six months ago, and we inherited a situation which was not the best circumstances.
The United States was enabled – basically because of certain mistakes that were made – to impose its views on the rest of the international community.
It is not a healthy exercise but it is an exercise that is ongoing nevertheless.
euronews: “ You have invited oil companies, cartels, international cartels to come to Iran and sign agreements for Iranian oil.
What are the terms on which you have agreed with them?
And if you have already signed any contracts … .
”
Zarif: “ It is just the beginning and few haven’t signed any contracts … .
euronews: “ Are you going to release copies of those contacts for the public to see?
”
Zarif: “ Usually, oil contracts are not public documents.
In no other country, there are confidentiality clauses in every oil deal that is available, but we have constitutional limitations.
We are trying to make our oil sector more open to international investment, and our ministry of petroleum is in the process of developing new types of agreements.
I am sure the model agreement will be out in the open.
We’ll make it public once it is ready so that everybody, every oil company can benefit from the new openings in the Iranian market which is very much appreciated by international oil companies, but the details of every deal that we make with every corporation will be governed by the confidentiality clauses within that agreement.
euronews: “ The public – Iranians – are concerned that you being in this situation, you’ve already succumbed to pressure by the international community, they are afraid that these contracts are being signed to the benefit of the oil cartels and that they go back to the Qajar period ” (the dynasty before Pahlavi during whose reign, Iran was badly exploited by the powers of the time i.e.
Britain, France and Russia.
It is known as the darkest page in the Iranian history)
Zarif: “ That will certainly not happen. ~~~ The Iranian public has a way of expressing its views, and that is through the ballot box.
They’ve done it in the past.
If they consider our behaviour to be outside the limits of national interest, they will do it again. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Let’s move to your area, and that is foreign policy.
Recently you said that all foreign forces in Syria had to leave, vacate the country and leave it to the people to decide.
In that case why is it that the Quds Force (elite branch of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps) is still there and has a very strong presence in Syria?
”
Zarif: “ What I have said and what I continue to believe is that the future of Syria is for the Syrian people to determine, and the Syrian people should do it without interference from the outside.
Now, Iran is pledging its support for a political outcome, because we believe there is no … .
”
euronews: “ But you have a military presence there … ”
Zarif: “ We don’t have a military presence.
The Syrian government is a government recognised by the United Nations, has a seat in the United Nations, and Iran has long-standing relations with that government.
I believe those who are supporting terrorist groups that are on the UN list of terrorist organisations, those should be accountable for the support that they are providing – the money, the arms – that they are providing those terrorist organisations.
I don’t see any law against having relations with Syria but Iran does not have armed forces in Syria.
Ever since Mr.
Rouhani came to power, the number of executions have dramatically increased.
What do you have to say about that?
”
Zarif: “ Our judiciary is independent.
And the presidential elections has had very little effect on the judiciary.
Of course, we do not get ourselves involved or intervene in the affairs of the judiciary.
We would like to see, certainly lower executions in all countries, we would like to see greater respect for human rights in all countries and certainly our human rights record can be improved, but it takes time for this government to have an impact on all aspects of Iranian life. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Twenty-three million small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union (SMEs) form the backbone of its economy but many of them continue to weather economic crisis.
In the run-up to a week dedicated to the relaunch of small businesses, we’ll discuss their challenges with Antonio Tajani, a vice-president of the European Commission in charge of the industry portfolio.
 ~~~ Margherita Sforza, euronews: “ Vice-President, European industry is not doing very well.
In 2012 the manufacturing sector, which accounts for just over 15 percent of Europe’s GDP, contracted.
We are far from your goal for European industry to contribute 20 percent of GDP by 2020.
What’s to be done about that straight away?
” ~~~ Antonio Tajani , European Commissioner for Industry: “ We must believe in industry.
It is unimaginable that we’ll get out of this crisis without an industrial structure that allows Europe to create jobs.
It’s not enough to have strong action to reduce the public debt; that has to be accompanied by a real strategy for the real economy, favouring industry and developing the internal market. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ The United States believes in industry.
Thanks also to a drastic reduction in energy costs, it has managed to grow faster than Europe.
The US has succeeded especially thanks to shale gas, obtained from fracturing rock.
Is that an opportunity for Europe or a risk? ~~~ ”
Tajani: “ In my opinion, it is an opportunity.
But we must assess how to use this without damaging the environment.
It would be wrong for Europe simply to rule it out.
We need to accelerate a technical-scientific analysis that could tell us how we could use this form of energy to make our system more competitive.
The European Commission, at the request of the Council, is preparing a study for the end of this year on the impact of energy costs on industry.
euronews: “ Small and medium-sized companies are trapped in a difficult position between public administrations that don’t pay these companies what they owe them and the difficulty of getting credit from banks.
There is a European law that requires the public administration to pay its debts within 30 days but countries such as Greece and Italy take more than 150 days to pay.
What will you do about this?
You promised zero tolerance. ~~~ ”
Tajani: “ I promised zero tolerance because just as citizens are required to pay taxes to the state it is equally important for the government to pay the companies that supply them.
The term is 30 days, 60 in some cases.
It is also important to pay off old debts that public authorities owe businesses.
Italy is the most striking case, with approaching 100 billion euros in outstanding debt.
euronews: “ According to a European Central Bank survey this year, small businesses say the conditions of access to finance have got even worse, even though the European Central Bank issued new funds to help the banks.
Why haven’t the funds gone from the banks into the real economy? ~~~ ”
Tajani: “ The Banking Union should make it easier to use the money for businesses.
We have reached an operating agreement with the European Parliament and the European Council to enable loans for SMEs of up to 1.5 million euros.
The Basel III rules which require a reserve for each loan, wouldn’t be applied rigidly.
[Basel III (or the Third Basel Accord of 2010–11) is a global, voluntary Banking Supervision regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy, stress testing and market liquidity risk.] In other words, fewer reserves will be necessary for loans to small and medium-sized companies, to make more loans and easier loans accessible for small businesses.
We have also decided to give more space to SMEs in the next EU budget, for 2014-2020, with the Horizon 2020 package and the COSME programme dedicated to small and medium-sized enterprises.
[COSME is the EU programme for the Competitiveness of Enterprises and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
euronews: “ This programme is very interesting but it amounts to a few crumbs of the 2014-2020 EU financial perspective, which is still very tilted towards agriculture and territorial cohesion.
Couldn’t you do more for companies?
Tajani: “ Even within the funds allocated for territorial cohesion there is the possibility to apply the funds towards growth, to build infrastructure, and for small and medium-sized companies.
But we must end the use of Structural Funds for village festivals and concerts.
It should be noted that the European Commission and the European Investment Bank with the support of the Council representing the member states have decided to launch a major package with Commission and Investment Bank funds to finance small and medium-sized companies. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Let’s talk about the fashion industry, in which five million jobs are at risk in some way because of counterfeit production.
You recently met with fashion sector representatives; what did you promise them? ~~~ ”
Tajani: “ We have a very strong strategy against counterfeiting.
Buying a counterfeit product means helping organised crime behind this activity – with a turnover as big as the illegal drugs trade.
Buying fakes damages businesses and workers. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ You’re preparing an action plan for fashion?
” ~~~ Tajani: “ We are preparing an action plan for fashion.
This is the sector that can promote Europe’s image outside the boundaries of Europe.
This sector can attract tourists to two events we staunchly support: the Milan Expo in 2015 and the European football championships in France in 2016.
euronews: “ Europe has regained competitiveness in biotechnologies and nanotechnologies in terms of knowledge, but when it comes to translating an idea into a marketable product we don’t do as well.
What can you say to companies in these sectors to boost their competitiveness?
Tajani: “ For many years, the results of European research in these areas have been used by the Japanese and Chinese for their businesses, that were competing with our businesses.
That ‘season’ is now over: the big Horizon 2020 package aims to put money towards using research and innovation linked with industrial policy.
We have tried to address a problem that has actually damaged our businesses. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ A final question: we are approaching an EU summit in February – dedicated to competitiveness and industry.
What can you promise Europeans who are afraid of further relocations and more loss of jobs?
Tajani: “ Besides the fiscal compact, we will do our best to coordinate European budgetary policy, at the European level to coordinate industrial growth.
We could achieve a breakthrough, after so many years of policy being based only on economic financing and service – a policy based on the real economy, where finance and services will be called on to support the real economy.
This is the only way we can create new jobs and compete globally, focusing on quality and not quantity. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
With Latvia set to join the euro single currency soon, euronews went to talk to the Baltic country’s Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, in Riga.
He has been leading the euro application process.
Seventeen countries are in the euro group today, including Latvia’s regional neighbour Estonia, since 2011. ~~~ 
Latvia’s target date to abandon its national currency, the lats (plural lati), is next January, in 2014.
A final decision by the EU on Riga’s eurozone membership request is expected this summer.
Hans von der Brelie, euronews: “ Prime Minister, the European Single Currency is in a deep crisis.
So why does Latvia want to join the euro right now? ~~~ ”
Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis: “ We set this target of 1st January 2014 several years ago.
Since we fulfil all the Maastricht criteria we are now moving forward.
I would not say that this [current crisis] is a euro-crisis; it is not a crisis of the euro as a currency.
If you look at the euro as a currency, it is stable, like the US dollar or the Japanese yen or other global currencies.
The share [of the euro] as a global reserve currency is also stable: some one quarter of global reserves is held in euros.
[In reality, this crisis] is a financial and economical crisis in certain eurozone countries.
”
euronews: “ Between 2008 and 2010 Latvia lost one fifth of its economic wealth.
There could have been the possibility of devaluation in order to reboost [your] economy but you chose austerity.
Isn’t this a price too high to pay for most people?
Dombrovskis: “ First of all, we do not see devaluation as much of an answer to our economic problems, because we are a very small and very open economy, which means that if we were to devalue then imported energy prices would increase immediately, imported component prices would increase immediately and any gains in competitiveness we would get [through devaluation] we would lose very quickly through inflation.
And if you think about this, devaluation per se does not help with the budget deficit.
So we would have to do austerity anyway, because, for example, in 2009 we had a budget deficit of almost 10 percent of GDP and this was after having taken austerity measures.
Now our budget deficit is down to 1.4 percent of GDP, which is a reasonable level.
But it had to be brought to this reasonable level.
euronews: “ Most people here in Latvia are against the euro.
Why you are deciding to introduce the euro against the [will of the] majority of the people?
” ~~~ Dombrovskis: “ First: it will help us to attract foreign investment, because it will reduce some currency exchange rate risks that there might be, and which still has to be somehow calculated in.
For the very same reason we think it will help to lower interest rates, both for public debt as for the economy as a whole, and we would reduce currency conversion costs for the economy, because we are spending hundreds of millions of euros just for converting from lats to euros and from euros to lats, because our economy is already quite “ euro-ised ” .
Eighty percent of our loans are in euros. ~~~ Almost half of deposits are in euros.
And our currency, the lats, is pegged to the euro anyway.
So, whatever happens to the euro will happen to the lats.
”
euronews: “ Being a member of the eurozone implies solidarity among the members of this eurozone.
Are you ready to pay for crisis countries such as Greece? ~~~ ”
Dombrovskis: “ Yes.
First of all, we understand that becoming a member of the eurozone means sharing solidarity, means contributing to the European stability mechanism, and we are ready to give our contribution.
Even if you could calculate that contribution as an ‘expense’, we consider it more like an ‘insurance mechanism’ which might be helpful for us as well.
But even if we calculate it just as an expense, we see that the benefits are much bigger than the potential costs. ~~~ “
euronews: “ Once you are a member of the eurozone, your voice – Latvia’s voice – will be heard among your colleagues of the eurozone.
What lessons could be learnt from Latvia?
” ~~~ Dombrovskis: “ Well, there needs to be a balanced approach.
In the case of Latvia, there were three main directions how we overcame our crisis: fiscal adjustment, which was needed to stabilise finances; measures to stimulate the economy – we mainly did it through the absorption of EU funds which are available to us – and also cutting the administrative burden.
We also set up additional social safety networks to deal with the social consequences of the crisis.
I think this is also the direction in which the European debate is going.
But at the same time we need economic growth, so we have to look at how to stimulate growth.
And we need to deal with the social problems, and despite being the country that has applied the most austerity of all the 27 EU members, we are now also the country which has the fastest growing economy in the EU-27.
”
euronews: “ Having a look around Europe, we see political crises in Bulgaria, in Italy, in other countries – due to austerity.
You are opting for austerity. ~~~ Aren’t you afraid about your political future?
”
Dombrovskis: “ In fact, in Latvia we are not practising austerity politics any more.
The 2013 budget was, in fact, the first budget where we started to increase expenditures to allocate some extra funds for priorities.
I have already been through two parliamentary elections in my four years in office, and have managed to stay in spite of the austerity measures we have taken.
We also clearly saw some kind of austerity fatigue.
You really cannot drag it on for many years. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ What is your strongest argument to convince someone who is against the euro?
”
Dombrovskis: “ Well, the euro will serve as a positive signal about financial and economical stability in Latvia, and it will facilitate economic growth. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
As the use of chemical weapons tips the Syrian civil war into unchartered territory, euronews spoke to the country’s deputy foreign minister, Faysal al-Mikdad.
euronews: “ After 10 years of the Iraq war, now we have Syria under focus.
There are threats especially from the US and France to bomb against Syria.
How is this impacting on Syria and the Syrian government?
”
Faysal al-Mikdad: “ The goal of colonialism was always to weaken the Arabs against Israel. ~~~ 
“ It is not a war yet but an aggression and the principle goal of this aggression is to eliminate all the potential military force of Syria as happened with Iraq and has been happening with Eygpt. ~~~ 
“ The government of Syria is ready to confront this war and aggression. ~~~ 
“ This war has no reason but to show that the colonialist powers – US and especially France – are supporting al-Qaeda, al-Nusra and “ the Islamic state of Iraq against the Arabic people of Syria.
”
Click on this link to watch Part One
Click on this link to watch Part Two
euronews: “ But John Kerry talked about proof of chemical weapons use by the Syrian army? ~~~ ”
Al-Mikdad: “ This proof is ridiculous and I am laughing. ~~~ 
“ I was the ambassador for Syria to the security council when Colin Powell showed us a bottle of white powder claiming it was proof of chemical weapons the Iraqi regime was about to use against its people.
 ~~~ “ Later we found out it was allegations without basis.
But half a million or more Iraqis were killed as a consequence of these allegations.
And the US did not apologise for this.
” ~~~ “ They repeat the same trick.
They lie when they talk about this crime claiming that the responsibility was on the Syrian government.
 ~~~ “ They are the ones who give the chemical weapons to their allies in Syria, who are the terrorist groups.
 ~~~ “ The US decided to support them when they start to see them being defeated.
”
euronews: “ What is the Syrian proof that your army did not use chemical weapons?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ We said publically that Syria will not use these weapons against its own people.
“ At this moment Syria had the UN team and they were only 100 metres from the site where the American secret services and the West claimed that there was use of chemical weapons.
“ So I confirm that these are just lies.
They want only to rescue themselves from defeat to put Syria into the hands of Israel. ~~~ 
“ As I said before Israel is the reason for all that is happening now in Syria and the whole Arab region.
“ The powers of the Muslim Brotherhood, fundamentalists and al-Qaeda have been created by these western countries and by their actions they are serving the goals of colonialism in the Arab region.
”
euronews: “ But we saw pictures on the internet and television, showing families and children who were burning from the gas and chemical weapons.
Did you see these reports in Damascus?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ We are sad when we see these pictures and reports.
“ We said, and I hope it will be clear for everyone who is watching, that the terrorist groups used the gas of sarin in Aleppo. ~~~ 
“ And we have the proof that these terrorist groups hit our soldiers with chemical weapons near Damascus in the same areas where the US and their allies claim that the Syrian army used them.
 ~~~ “ We confirm the people who used the chemical weapons were agents of the secret services of US and their allies.
It is the secret services who fabricated this story with Bandar Bin Sultan who is a spy for the US and the western secret services. ~~~ 
“ Syria is innocent of all these allegations – our morality doesn’t allow us to commit such crimes.
It could be that the pictures are genuine but who used the chemical weapons are the criminals and the terrorists backed by the US, France and others.
“ al-Nusra and al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups said that they have the potential to make chemical weapons.
Turkey arrested a terrorist group which had 2kg of chemical materials from Libya.
The Iraqi government arrested people who were about to manufacture more chemical materials.
This is public knowledge.
”
euronews: “ Does that mean you are accusing directly Saudi Arabia?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ I accuse everyone who finances and arms the terrorist groups in order to commit these crimes.
They are the ones responsible for the bloodshed in Syria.
Saudi Arabia is the main player.
”
euronews: “ What will be the consequences of the potential bombing in Syria?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ We will not stand by and watch what the US and its allies will do in the region.
The whole region will be affected by what will be happening in Syria.
”
euronews: “ Can the Syrian government confront this kind of bombing, which will target sensitive and strategic sites?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ We do not have the capacity to confront the American military machine.
But we will resist and we will defend our dignity and the honour of the Syrian citizens and the Syrian territory.
”
euronews: “ What kind of consequences could there be for Israel and Turkey by the bombing?
”
Al-Mikdad: “ I am now talking to all the people of the world and saying that any kind of bombing or aggression in Syria is just giving support and victory to al-Qaeda and al-Nusra, without reference to any principles or values.
 ~~~ “ The UN charter, as formulated by the founding fathers including the US, forbids states to act outside of the security council’s resolutions.
It doesn’t allow states to violate international security and peace.
”
</text>
<text>
Since the start of the serious violence in Syria, the country that has felt the most direct practical impact has been neighbouring Lebanon.
The consequences of the crisis have been political, economic and social.
In Beirut, pressures linked to Syria prompted Najib Mikati to resign as prime minister, but he has remained in a caretaker capacity.
As preparations continue for a new government to be formed, Daleen Hassan went to speak with him.
Daleen Hassan, euronews: “ Lebanon is following a ‘keep-its-distance’ policy toward Syria.
How much has Lebanon been affected by this crisis? ~~~ ”
Caretaker Prime Minister of Lebanon Najib Mikati: “ I believe that the self-distancing policy is absolutely the appropriate policy for the Lebanese government and the Lebanese people, looking at the developments in the region, and especially seeing what is happening in Syria, which is highly significant for Lebanon.
We have had to consider the historical and geographical relationship between Lebanon and Syria, as well as the split in Lebanese society into pro- and anti- political positions involving Syrian events.
I think it’s the right attitude to keep for the up-coming government, in the future, because that’s what will protect Lebanon from the consequences of what is going on in the region. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ In the absence of a new government, as caretaker prime minister, how are you handling the Syrian crisis consequences, especially the refugees crisis?
Mikati: “ This case is primarily a humanitarian case, not a political one.
When a Syrian citizen – who is a brother to us Lebanese people – seeks refuge in Lebanon, asking for a safe place, we must respond to that request.
However, the number of refugees is enormous; we have about 750,000 refugees registered with international organisations; they hold refugee status.
Then there are Syrians straddling between Syria and Lebanon: more than 300,000 Syrians who are not registered as refugees but who are currently in Lebanon.
We as a Lebanese government are doing our duty towards the Syrian refugees who are on our territory. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ People in Beirut say that the presence of the Syrians has made problems for the Lebanese worse; must they bear the consequences of the Syrian crisis?
” ~~~ Mikati: “ When Lebanon had a civil war, Syria opened its doors to receive the Lebanese people over the years; we will not close the door in the faces of the Syrians today.
But the Lebanese state must control this, so that the number of Syrians in Lebanon only increases according to certain conditions; we are monitoring the Lebanese borders as well.
Therefore, every Syrian in Lebanon who does not apply for refugee status will have his status reconsidered.
euronews: “ Has Lebanon benefited economically in any way from the Syrian crisis?
Mikati: “ No, on the contrary: the last assessment carried out by the international bank in a special study showed Lebanon had been damaged by the crisis, and that it has had a direct impact on growth. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Some Lebanese bankers indicated that many Syrians with capital assets had deposited money in Lebanese banks.
Wouldn’t you think that would contribute to the Lebanese economy?
Mikati: “ I’ll tell you frankly: Lebanese banks are cautious, under these circumstances in particular, about attracting deposits from the Syrians.
Lebanese banks are doing their job of overseeing accounts, to make sure who the owners of these accounts are, because we do not want there to be grounds for any doubt by the international community over certain accounts held in Lebanese banks.
”
euronews: [this part of the transcript omits Mikati’s attempts to intervene; the journalist perseveres and completes the question]: “ There is talk about transfers of money to Lebanese banks by people linked to the Syrian regime, such as senior statesmen; yet is that not in breach of the sanctions imposed on Damascus?
Mikati: “ Lebanese banks are in the process of verifying all the accounts and people who wish to put their money in Lebanese banks.
Therefore, I do not think that what has came from Syria is a huge amount of money – because of these measures. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Let’s talk about Hezbollah, which recently admitted it is fighting in support of the Syrian regime; there is also an influx of weapons and fighters who support the uprising in Syria, and want to help the Free Army.
As a government, how are you dealing with this; have there been any measures to prevent weapons and fighters from getting into Syria?
” ~~~ Mikati: “ Since the first day any of these parties got involved in the Syrian war, we urged them not to become involved in Syria’s affairs, because it would not make a difference for Lebanon.
My position is to look out for Lebanon’s interest, and therefore I repeat my appeal to everyone to have no dealings in Syrian affairs, either at close range or from a distance – because it hurts the Lebanese interest.
euronews: “ The European Union classifies the military wing of the Hezbollah party as a terrorist organisation; how does the government in Beirut deal with that decision?
Mikati: “ We are waiting for measures to be undertaken by the European Union.
The case should be re-considered after six months.
Then our government will ask the EU to reconsider its decision.
euronews: “ There have been suspicions and accusations recently that the Syrian regime has transferred part of its chemical weapons to Lebanese territory; is there any truth to those rumours?
Mikati: “ l give my personal assurance that that is not true.
We have not had any information about that, and the secretary-general of Hezbollah confirmed those accusations were invalid. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ In the case of a military strike against Syria, how would Lebanon deal with the potential consequences?
” ~~~ Mikati: “ We look constantly at the implications for Lebanon.
Lebanon has advocated a political solution as best-suited for what is happening in Syria. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
The global art market is worth 43 billion euros annually, according to the European Fine Art Foundation’s latest report. ~~~ 
Europe’s share of the market is 36 percent, followed by the US and China, with the emerging countries showing strong growth in recent years. ~~~ 
How is the market reacting to the international economic crisis, who are the new players, how are tax laws affecting sales?
Euronews asked these questions to Guillaume Cerutti, CEO of the auctioneer Sotheby’s France and deputy CEO of Sotheby’s Europe, in this interview recorded at his Paris headquarters.
Giovanni Magi, euronews: “ To what extent does the economic crisis affect the international art market?
Guillaume Cerutti: “ The economic crisis is affecting the international art market, like all sectors, but in a relative or differentiated way, because the art market has special characteristics.
This market is very surprising: it is a market where there are only individuals, individual collectors and individual objects.
These are very special characteristics.
And therefore faced with a crisis, we see that masterpieces, rare works with a prestigious provenance, large paintings, are not affected by the crisis.
On the contrary, they are more sought-after by big collectors.
In contrast, objects of lesser value, interesting paintings, but of less marked value, can be affected by the crisis and their estimates should at this point be extremely precise to enable us to sell them.
So, the crisis has a differentiated impact depending on the quality and importance of the object.
”
euronews: “ There have been some auctions where works reach incredible prices.
Is art always a good investment or there is the risk of a bubble effect, as in the stock market?
”
Cerutti: “ It is true that the major auctions have been breaking records.
Last year, for example, Sotheby’s in New York sold a work of Eduard Munch, ‘The Scream’, a famous work, for more than $120 million.
The works of Picasso sold at auction in Paris, for example a portrait of Dora Maar, went for seven million euros.
It is true that these figures suggest that the art market is a somewhat protected area, a safe haven in times of crisis.
The reality is more nuanced of course, because again there are areas where there are fewer buyers and worries about the global economic situation may be felt.
”
euronews: “ Is the art market increasingly reserved for the elites, the very rich?
”
Cerutti:* “ The art market is actually composed of several markets.
If you take the great impressionist and modern paintings, the prices for masterpieces are often very high and to answer to your question, then it is, yes. ~~~ To purchase an important painting by Picasso takes a lot of resources.
At the same time, there are domains in the art market where you can make acquisitions at very low prices. ~~~ For example, engravings: you can buy a work by Picasso, which is a true original, because it is one of very few copies engraved by an important engraver, for a few hundred euros.
We had a sale in Paris at the end of February, of works from the engraver Crommelynck, where extraordinary works of Picasso sold for a few hundred euros.
”
euronews: “ What kind of artwork is the most prized by your clients?
”
Cerutti: “ The twentieth century art is undeniably the largest on the market today.
Impressionism, modern art, the art of the postwar period, it is in these areas that the highest prices are made.
Some other sectors have experienced in recent years a very rapid development, such as the arts of Africa and Oceania, which have become a very important sector of the market.
Another area that has seen a dramatic development is Asian art.
Only a dozen years ago, the art market was a market reserved primarily for Western clients: Europeans and Americans.
In recent years Asian buyers, including the Chinese, came to the market with a huge appetite for buying works of their history, imperial works, seals, jades and ceramics, and we have seen this market also develop very quickly.
”
euronews: “ Who are your customers?
Is their profiles changing?
”
Cerutti: “ The identity of the buyers, the profile of the buyers in the art market has evolved in recent years.
A dozen years ago, the typical profile of the collector was a western one, a European, an American.
Today, the typical profile is difficult to say, because there are buyers from Russia, China, India, and Latin America who have increased the number of potential customers, on top of the Americans and Europeans who are still there.
So the profile is more difficult to draw.
In addition, secondary sectors have highly developed in recent years.
Take for example photography, or the art of Africa and Oceania which have experienced a very rapid development.
They have led to an influx of new buyers, younger, a little different from what we had in the more traditional sectors ten years ago.
”
euronews “ Is Paris still attractive to collectors?
”
Cerutti: “ Paris and France were, 40 years ago, the main art market in the world.
It was a time when France and Paris were still, from the point of view of creativity and the density of artists, a must.
And then there were extremely important auction houses and dealers that dominated the world at a time when the art market was still relatively small.
It was a coexistence of national markets.
And throughout the 70s, 80s, 90s, and since 2000, the market became international.
France has lost ground, because in this country we often like to have a little protectionist reflex.
France has always been a little hesitant about globalisation. ~~~ And we lost ground.
As the process of globalisation grew, France lost its top spot.
The action moved to countries and sales places that are more dynamic to attract buyers and create large events around sales: London, New York obviously, as well as now Hong Kong, which has become an extremely important sales point.
”
euronews: “ Is the art market sensitive to different countries’ taxation?
”
Cerutti: “ The art market is highly sensitive to taxation and regulations. ~~~ For a very simple reason: objects that are sold on the art market, as well the collectors involved in the art market, are highly mobile.
An object can be sold in Paris, but its owner can also decide to sell it very easily in London or Geneva.
A collector can choose to buy at an auction in Paris but can also easily buy in London, Geneva, or New York today, with international technology, the Internet, sending catalogues, communications made by auction houses, which provide information at home anywhere in the world.
So the taxation, from this point of view, is decisive, because it may cause a displacement of these actors or their preferences to sell a work of art.
”
euronews: “ What are your predictions for 2013 and the coming years?
”
Cerutti: “ What we observed in recent years is that after a period of very rapid development in the 2000s, we had, like other sectors, a crisis in 2008-2009, a crisis that was mainly a crisis of confidence and so the market shrank.
We rebounded strongly, we developed well in 2010-2011 and 2011 was a very good year for the market activity of art; 2012 was a little down compared to 2011; and 2013 is a year we are watching carefully because I think there are risk factors: we must be cautious in estimating the items that are on sale, because the horizon of all the economic operators, but also our customers, is under scrutiny: people are not making long-term plans, they see that this year is undeniably difficult at a European level for growth and so they are cautious.
Our role in this context is to adapt ourselves by making extremely attractive estimations to generate trust and then be extremely selective in the quality of sales that we set up at Sotheby’s, which is one of our main objectives.
”
</text>
<text>
As the film industry prepares for the 66th edition of the Cannes Film Festival, Audrey Tautou is preparing to battle her natural instinct to flee the limelight.
Last year she walked (and wowed) the red carpet whilst celebrating her film ‘Thérèse Desqueyroux’, but this year she really sticks her head above the parapet in her new role as ‘mistress of ceremonies’ at the festival.
Euronews’ Ali May spoke to one of French cinema’s national treasures about her undying love for Stephen Frears, feelings of ambivalence towards Hollywood, and why some cinema fans still cannot shake the image of her as the pixie-faced heroine of Amélie, one of the most successful French films of all time.
Ali May, euronews: “ You have acted in blockbuster thrillers, you have acted in comedies, in love stories and of course Thérèse Desqueyroux is one of your period dramas.
Is there any genre that you think is more attuned to your artistic ambitions and abilities or do you just not mind? ~~~ ”
Audrey Tautou: “ I can not say that I have preferences … I love, love stories, I love comedies, but I also like harder films, which offer something different … a reflection of something more intellectual, it’s fascinating for me.
euronews: “ Thérèse Desqueyroux is a twisted, complicated character.
Was there any part of the character that you found hard to play?
Audrey Tautou: “ With Claude Miller, the film’s director, we took time to talk about the character, to discover her, so I think, even before we started shooting, I was quite integrated with who she was.
It meant there was no mystery, nothing felt unclear … and so I did not find it too difficult.
She is a woman who wants to determine her own life, to escape both her marriage and the cruel and the hypocritical bourgeoisie around her, she falls into this very immoral act of poisoning her husband..
mainly from a survival instinct, but it is true, it is almost a little transgressive.
euronews: “ OK, I have a confession here for you: when I see your picture I think ‘oh Amelie’ and it’s hard to think of you as Audrey.
I want you to look back at that film 12 years ago.
What was it that made it such a classic and that character such a memorable hit?
Audrey Tautou: “ I don’t know, but I think this movie is a little miracle; it had something that touched people’s hearts, and so deep … it’s quite indescribable!
That it touched so many people, irrespective of their culture, nationality, it is strange but really, I do not have the answer.
”
euronews: “ I think it was in a way the very foundation of your international success.
Would you agree with that?
Audrey Tautou: “ It is set in wonderful Paris, and it is probably true, that whilst it allowed the audience to discover Paris, and France, perhaps they also found me in passing.
But its not something that I am really aware of; I’m just happy and proud to be an ambassador for French cinema, that’s for sure.
euronews: “ Let’s now look at your international career.
It’s only once every few years that you do a Hollywood film.
What’s the reason?
I don’t think the reason is that you don’t get offers.
I’m sure you’re getting lots of offers. ~~~ ”
Audrey Tautou: “ No, I do not get a lot of proposals, but that’s because I’m not so present in their market.
They have extraordinary actresses, and I do not speak English very well … so there are a few reasons why I am maybe a little on the margins.
It is true that, from time to time, I have had great experiences in Hollywood, and I hope to have such an opportunity again, but working there is not an obsession for me either.
euronews: “ You have a very interesting catalogue of films in your career.
When you look back at them if you wanted to pick two or three that you had most fun with, which films would you say they were?
Audrey Tautou: “ I would say ‘Amelie’, that is for sure … I would say ‘Hors de Prix’, ‘Coco avant Chanel’ … and I can not help thinking of ‘Dirty Pretty Things’, which I shot with Steven Frears, who I have been completely in love with for 10 years, and I said again yesterday, he knows it.
No, it was an extraordinary experience, one of the best experiences of my life. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Tell me about your future plans … ”
Audrey Tautou: “ I don’t like to necessarily predict things too much.
I try to implement small personal projects, that are not necessarily associated with cinema.
There are two movies I worked on which are set to be released in France, so I’ll take care to present them, and then there are other things … life, family, friends. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
The “ Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ” wants to become a member of the European Union. ~~~ 
But Greece is blocking accession talks because of a dispute over the official name.
The “ Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ” has been independent since 1991.
Ten years later, the country came close to civil war.
Tensions between ethnic Albanians and Macedonians were defused with NATO and EU help.
But this year, tensions between communities have been rumbling again.
euronews met the Macedonian president in the capital Skopje.
Hans von der Brelie, euronews: ~~~ Mr President, we have the rise of ethnic tensions and violent clashes since the beginning of this year.
Explain to us why.
President Gjorge Ivanov, FYR Macedonia: ~~~ All societies in the Balkans are multi-ethnic, multi-lingual and multi-religious, because of the old empires.
In terms of democracy, Macedonia is a model of inclusion of all differences and diversities in society.
Macedonia, compared to other countries in the region, has managed to implement a real level of integration.
euronews:
Ivanov: ~~~ There is a problem when politics concentrate on ethnicity, because some individuals try to mobilize voters by abusing the public arena.
But Macedonia managed to survive all the problems linked to the ethnicity in politics.
Those isolated, individual cases of tensions can not be generalized.
Nevertheless there seems to be a rise in tensions since the beginning of this year.
What is your explanation for this?
Ivanov: ~~~ There were various images of Macedonia before the NATO summit in Chicago.
It’s something that happens regularly before the convening of a NATO or EU summit, because some don’t want a stabilised Balkans. ~~~ There are still politicians in the Balkans who are slaves to the perceptions of the past.
Is the future of being a multi-ethnic State in danger, given the fact that many Albanians living here say: “ we don’t have equal chances, we don’t have equal opportunities in this country.
”
Ivanov: ~~~ In future, most countries will be multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multi-linguistic. ~~~ It is a challenge most countries will be faced with in the future.
Macedonia, with its political model and with the “ Ohrid framework agreement ” which is part of our constitution, is trying to respect and implement all those standards.
The social ties between citizens are mainly cultural, religious or historical and not so much ethnic or political.
euronews: ~~~ To bring forward my question again: Albanians are saying, to me that there is still discrimination, that there are no equal chances for them in this state.
Ivanov: ~~~ That is something they must address themselves, to the Albanian parties that have won their trust and votes.
Because Albanian parties are coalition partners in the government, and there are Albanian ministers and ambassadors.
The Albanians should not address themselves to the state, but to those parties they have elected and they trust.
They have full citizens’ rights and they can take advantage of that. ~~~ euronews:
To move on to the next topic: There is a problem with this dispute over the official name of “ Macedonia ” . ~~~ This dispute is with Greece.
What is your message for Athens to solve and to break this deadlock?
Ivanov: ~~~ Greece needs to accept this new reality called “ The Republic of Macedonia ” , where Macedonians live, speaking the Macedonian language.
euronews: ~~~ Nevertheless, there is the problem that actually the EU accession is completly blocked because of this name dispute.
You are in a deadlock.
So, how to break it? ~~~ Ivanov:
Recently we’ve heard EU leaders ask Greece urgently to respect the obligations it has undertaken.
There are politicians in Greece acting irresponsibly towards us, towards the European Union and towards the international community, and because of this irresponsible behaviour, our integration towards the European Union and Nato membership is blocked, even though Greece has made an obligation not to block our accession processes.
euronews: ~~~ What is your hope for this new Greek government?
Ivanov: ~~~ There is co-operation in business, culture, and arts. ~~~ Artists, musicians and students exchange ideas.
But there has been no meeting between political parties nor between the presidents over the last 20 years, even though I’ve sent four invitations to the President.
We expect that with the elections in Greece leaders will emerge who will respect the new reality, both in terms of Macedonia and also in terms of other neighbours.
And finally we expect that Greece will take its leading position in the region again.
euronews: ~~~ All over Skopje we see the construction of huge statues of ancient heroes and warriors.
Greece-Athens is interpreting this constructions as a, quote, “ unfriendly act ” .
What is your reaction to this?
Ivanov: ~~~ We are a UNESCO member state and that obliges us to preserve, nurture and cherish the entire cultural heritage found on our territory.
It’s not our fault that there is so much history in our region. ~~~ euronews:
Albanians say they feel excluded by the construction of this “ ancient Macedonian identity ” by constructing those huge statues all over Skopje.
What is your reaction on that, being the president of all communities in this State?
Ivanov: ~~~ Those are isolated, individual comments which do not reflect the official position of the Albanian community.
euronews: ~~~ Let’s move on to the European Union and the high level talks with the European Union: during those high level talks with the European Commission, there was concern expressed because several critical media were closed.
Is the freedom of expression under threat?
Ivanov: ~~~ As you know, here in Macedonia we have, on the one hand, “ factual reality ” and on the other, “ media reality ” , Often the “ media reality ” has no connection with the “ factual reality ” and with the real events going on in the public arena.
 ~~~ But in terms of democracy, pluralisation and liberty: everything is present on the public stage.
But what’s happening in all of the ex-socialist countries – a connection between the business elite and the media – is happening here in Macedonia too.
The media in Macedonia are too often used to protect the private interests of certain individuals.
euronews: ~~~ The European Commission also seems to be concerned about the independence of the system of justice.
There seem to be concerns that the justice system serves the interest of the major ruling party here.
Is the independence of judges being guaranteed?
Ivanov: ~~~ That’s why we need European Union membership. ~~~ Because through reforms and the negotiation process we will be able to attain European standards.
What they have in European states will also be present in Macedonia, like a reformed judiciary. ~~~ euronews:
Maybe a positive message for this last point.
In 2001, this country was very close to a civil war. ~~~ Could this situation repeat?
Can you exclude, yes or no, that this “ frozen conflict ” will become a “ hot conflict ” again?
Ivanov: ~~~ There is a description of the Balkans as a powder-keg. ~~~ But, this keg has never been lit here in our southern part of the Balkans.
</text>
<text>
Lithuania’s President Dalia Grybauskaite will chair the European Union from July 1st.
 ~~~ As an EU Commissioner in Brussels, before becoming her country’s first female female leader, she knows the European Union well.
 ~~~ Grybauskaite spoke to euronews in the country’s capital, Vilnius.
euronews: “ The EU Presidency will put the spotlight on your country, and I guess that you want to make the best of it, but six months is quite short, and we often see some hot potatoes being passed on from one Presidency to the next.
So considering this, what are your ambitions, what are you willing, and able, to achieve?
Dalia Grybauskaite: “ Of course, usually, we are willing [want to do] a lot more than we can achieve, because it depends not only on the Presidency but also on all institutions, including the member states, the Parliament, and the Commission, partly.
But about hot potatoes, probably the largest one – and maybe very, very, very hot – can be still the European budget for seven years [2014-2020].
During these difficulties, we need resources, financial resources, as soon as possible, starting from 2014.
If we will be delayed, that means financial resources will be delayed. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ So what would that mean for ordinary Europeans, then, if you achieve this result?
” ~~~ Grybauskaite: “ If we will achieve – as much as we can, I mean it’s more than 70 programmes we need to negotiate – that means that from 2014, new programmes can start, new resources can come, especially if we are talking about youth unemployment, for young people, so they need money, they need employment and this will now depend on the Presidency and on the Parliament and on member states. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Can a country of three million people, which is outside the euro, influence the course of a European Union which is totally focused on the eurozone turmoil?
Don’t you fear being sidelined? ~~~ ”
Grybauskaite: “ No, I don’t, because all [the] main decisions, no matter [whether] they are decided or pre-decided in the eurozone, need to be confirmed by the [then all] 28 [member states] from July 1st.
( By that date Croatia will be in the EU) So that means, finally, we are reconfirming or confirming altogether the main decisions.
euronews: “ But the integration move is about the eurozone at the moment.
There is talk about an economic ‘government’ for the eurozone, more regular eurozone summits, institutional changes… And the gap between non-euro members and euro members is deepening. ~~~ ”
Grybauskaite: “ I would argue a little bit against that, because of course the eurozone can have its own governance and so on, but the problem of economic difficulties, including debt, the state debt crisis, is not only in the eurozone.
Some countries are having problems [whilst] not having the euro.
So that means that it’s more general, it’s not a euro crisis, its a state debt crisis, it’s a financial crisis, an economic one, and it’s not necessarily concentrated on the eurozone.
euronews: “ So you don’t fear that non-euro members will become minor players… ”
Grybauskaite: “ No, it still did not happen up until now, so I hope that it will not be the case. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Are you still planning to join the euro in 2015?
Lithuanians are not so enthusiastic about it, and you can’t blame them for that, because belonging to the euro is not so popular at the moment. ~~~ ”
Grybauskaite: “ Of course, there are fears in public that you can [could] pay probably for the countries who are not very disciplined and not taking care about [looking after] themselves well, but for us, a small country, a very open and liberal economy, already having de facto euro, because our currency is already pegged to the euro, we do [our currency does] not fluctuate… So really we have [it] de-facto, but we do not have monetary policy in our hands, we are not able to devalue when we need, for example as was done in other countries.
So in reality, we have all the obligations of the euro and not all of the rights.
euronews: “ So you would join the euro even if you have the support of only one third of the population?
Grybauskaite: “ We will try to explain to people.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Would you put the question to a referendum?
Poland is considering that … ”
Grybauskaite: “ No, I think that consultation with the people is not necessarily done via a referendum.
But in 2004 Lithuania had a referendum for EU membership, and in our membership treaty it is written that as soon as Lithuania ir ready, she will join the eurozone.
So, that means, we treat it as if we already had support by a referendum.
But of course, explanation, additional explanations, especially in this difficult situation, are needed and we need to talk with our people.
euronews: “ Your country, along with the other two Baltic states, applied very tough austerity programmes early in the crisis, and growth has returned.
Why did this work for Lithuania and not in Greece or Spain?
Grybauskaite: “ First, you rightly point out that we had a very tough [economic policy], because a little bit is not enough.
All these measures, especially on the cuts, need to be only temporarily.
So Lithuania this time did it only for two years, with the promise to people that we would compensate pensions and some other cuts and we are doing this.
After we started to recover in one year and a half after a 15 percent drop in GDP (in 2009), immediately we started to recover and because of that people trusted us, because we promised and we delivered, that it is would be temporary and that we will would compensate.
euronews: “ Didn’t this policy work also because you are a small open economy, based on exports, where the average wage is little more than 600 euros ? ~~~ ”
Grybauskaite: “ I think that it works not only because of that.
It works because we were able to explain to people, we were able to have consensus, and also we started with politicians, me included, the largest one.
My salary was cut by about 30 percent. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ I would like to switch to energy now.
Lithuania relies 100 percent on Russian gas, and Gazprom makes you pay much more than your neighbours for this.
Can you actually break free from this dependence? ~~~ ”
Grybauskaite: “ Yes.
Today we are in the middle of building our LNG terminal (liquefied natural gas), and by the end of 2014 we will finish it and from the beginning of 2015, we about half of our needs will be covered by the LNG terminal.
On electricity also, by the beginning of 2015, we will have a link to Sweden by then and we are building a second link with Estonia and Finland.
So we will be fully integrated into the ‘Nordpool’ (Scandinavian electricity network) system by the end of 2014, beginning 2015.
euronews: “ So, we are talking about years here, not decades… ”
Grybauskaite: “ No, no, no, it’s only two years we need to survive, because you are absolutely right, we pay about 30 percent more for gas than, for example, Germany does.
euronews: “ But the high price you pay has a lot to do with your firm political stance towards Russia… ”
Grybauskaite: “ Not only political stance, it’s a firm stance on energy reform also, because we are introducing the third package of energy reform of the European Union (legislation separating energy suppliers from transmission networks), we are trying to cut our dependency from Russia and of course, they are not happy.
euronews: “ Is this firmness towards Russia still necessary 23 years after independence?
” ~~~ Dalia Grybauskaite:- “ I think that the price which we are paying shows that Russia is still using energy resources as a political, economical pressure.
euronews: “ One last and maybe more personal question.
It is quite unusual for a Head of State to be a black belt in karate. ~~~ ”
Grybauskaite: “ It was in young time.
” [I was younger … ]
euronews: “ Can a parallel be drawn between politics and this martial art that you are very familiar with?
Grybauskaite: “ I think that martial art[s] are not only about physical fitness and being young, but mainly the philosophy of life, the discipline, and commitment to what you do and how you achieve the goal.
And this is [all] applicable to any work you do, including politics.
”
</text>
<text>
Mozambique has grown on average around 8 percent in recent years, partly because of large energy reserves, but half of the country’s 25 million population still live in poverty. ~~~ 
Euronews correspondent Isabel Marques da Silva spoke with President Armando Guebuza about these issues during the EU-Africa summit in Brussels .
Isabel Marques da Silva, euronews:
“ This EU – Africa summit wants to change the aid model to a model of investment and trade, particularly with the private sector.
What will it mean in practical terms?
” ~~~ Armando Guebuza, President of Mozambique:
“ One of our traditional sectors is agriculture, where productivity has been increasing.
This is already an important step and generates the need to develop the agro-industry and to have infrastructure in place that feeds this process.
Also important to Africa is tourism because Africa, as you know, is a major tourist centre, not only because of the beaches but because of its nature and wildlife. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ And what is the role of Europeans in terms of investment and trade?
Which model would be desirable to optimise growth? ~~~ ”
President Guebuza:
“ What Europe can and must do is continue to support us, especially in infrastructure, training and fighting dangerous diseases.
Mozambique is working at it, although only since relatively recently. ~~~ We’ve been searching for a cholera vaccine for children.
Europe has really lent a hand in the creation of new institutions.
Mozambique now has more than 40 higher education institutions, distributed throughout the country’s provinces ” .
euronews:
“ The fact is that the rate of poverty has not decreased as hoped and half of the population still live in poverty.
Transport, access to water and electricity are there for the elite.
But if there is more income available, why aren’t there more services? ~~~ ”
President Guebuza:
“ People’s attitudes don’t change just because there is a sudden 10 or 15-percent growth rate.
The distribution of wealth is not just mathematical, it depends on the creation of jobs, hospitals, infrastructure and so on.
Each one takes a long time to build.
Despite the growth that Africa is experiencing, to build a 100 or 200-kilometre road, for example, needs a major investment that’s not available.
Even in Europe, and in other developed countries, the crisis has to do with a lack of employment.
You can’t say there’s a lack of money or of resources!
They exist here but are not enough to absorb all the workforce.
We’re starting to grow, but obviously we can’t see development like that from one minute to the next! ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ We’re still seeing large numbers of people migrating from Africa to Europe despite the difficulties.
Many people still die on their way to Europe and there are many human trafficking networks.
How do you think this problem should be solved? ~~~ ”
President Guebuza:
“ The problem is socio-economic.
More jobs should be created, there should be investments in improving living conditions, further strengthening of technical and vocational training, as well as university education and infrastructure.
These changes would stop people from migrating from Africa to Europe or to any other continent in search of better living conditions. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ Lets speak about natural resources as a source of wealth.
Mozambique is often called the new “ El Dorado ” due to the recent discovery of large energy reserves.
But these so-called “ blessings ” have in many other countries become a “ poisoned gift ” that has lead to an escalation in corruption, more armed conflicts and ecological devastation. ~~~ 
“ How can Mozambique and other countries prevent these discoveries from causing problems?
Can partnerships with European companies help prevent that from happening? ~~~ ”
President Guebuza:
“ The problem shown by these great discoveries is, in essence, that we still have major shortcomings in knowledge, science and technology.
These energy reserves should have been discovered long ago.
We have large deficiencies in access to capital. ~~~ We should have already made use of it a long time ago.
Now what we have to do is use these discoveries – with the support of European investment – in a way that creates more income.
Whatever is earned through taxes and business opportunities should be used to strengthen our budget. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ Lets talk now about peace on the African continent.
During the last decade, the EU gave 1.2 billion euros for the so-called “ African Peace Facility ” , but the continent seems unable to prevent and resolve armed conflict.
”
President Guebuza:
“ Africa is aware that there are problems, Africa moves when there are problems and tries to anticipate and prevent them as they arise, but obviously these are human issues related to socio-economic problems and ancestral cultural conflicts between certain sectors of the population.
You don’t solve them by just handing over another billion dollars. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ But are these missions useful? ~~~ ”
President Guebuza:
“ They are part of the solution, but they are not the full solution.
Yes, we need to continue to have the support of Europe, but not think that support from Europe is a magic wand that solves everything!
I wish it was! ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
From the financial crisis and European integration to relations with Mediterranean countires and even the Arab uprisings, we met with the head of Italian Foreign Minister to answer some of our questions.
Thank you for receiving euronews here at The Farnesina, the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Do you think the Council’s European agreement at the end of June is sufficient to meet the urgent need for stabilisation in the euro area or will it serve another purpose?
Giulio Terzi, Italian Foreign Affairs Minister:
The agreement is enough.
Italy and the Foreign Secretary (Monti) have contributed substantially to the agreements of the European Council, and consider them good decisions, which of course will be executed only in the context of the Eurogroup and Ecofin.
Ecofin and Eurogroup will then define all the conditions of use of the firewall, because it was designed in relation to the excessive fluctuating spreads, which is particularly an issue for Italy, and we consider it a convincing measure, not only because it gives us a tool of intervention, but also by virtue of its existence.
We know that financial markets are based largely on the expectations of investors and speculators.
So having taken a measure of this type and knowing that it will be executed within a short period, is reassuring .
Liugi Spinola:
For Italy, what is or what should be the fine line between facing this crisis and boosting European construction?
Giulio Terzi:
Italy believes firmly in strengthening integration in all areas of European integration.
This is a political line rooted in parliament and public opinion, we have a strong federalist movement with goals for integration which are very clear and well defined.
So we want to expand the legitimacy of european institutions.
In fact we’re satisfied that the Lisbon Treaty has created the conditions for both the expansion of legitimacy and the role of the European Parliament.
But we remain convinced that the path to institutional reinforcement lies in fighting for a competitive Europe – a Europe that can truly play a significant role.
Luigi Spinola:
Let’s leave our continent and head south.
The Arab world is undergoing a major phase of transformation and change.
In your opinion, what can and should Europeans do to encourage the transition process that will lead to a new order?
Giulio Terzi:
From the very start of Monti’s government we’ve set ourselves on a very determined course in Mediterranean policy which oversees ongoing transformations in society, in institutions of these countries, mainly Tunisia, Libya, Egypt and also the Algerian and Moroccan perspectives.
 ~~~ We hope that Syria, which is really seeing these transformations uses the opportunity to make new partnerships from a new approach.
An approach which isn’t merely political but also cultural and shapes how we view the new reality of political Islam that has emerged in the southern Mediterranean.
On first inspection of these efforts, I can already see some encouraging and positive signs.
This is because the elections in these countries delivered clear indications of a very high turnout and especially among societies where sometimes the feminine component was marginalised by way of policy, we saw a particularly high participation of women.
Luigi Spinola:
Minister, there is a very real challenge arising from the Mediterranean, represented by the boatloads of aspiring immigrants setting out to sea.
In your opinion, does the Arab Spring require a different approach – is there another way to manage this migratory pressure, not only from Italy, which is the first point of embarking, but also of Europe as a whole?
Giulio Terzi:
This is necessary, I think Italy is the country which does most for the protection of people, for men, for their safety and also for the conditions of the weakest, who face a sea voyage with scant hopes of reaching the mainland on the other side.
In the first six months of this year alone, we saved over 800 migrants in boats in distress, so the Italian coastguard responded to 800 cases.
And we had an influx of nearly a thousand people in the first half.
These figures are very different from those we recorded from Tunisia and Libya in 2011 as a whole, when we recorded 28 000 and 29,000 people respctively having emigrated from the two countries.
 ~~~ The problem remains, but we see it less as a problem so much as a big challenge that Europe has to manage with responsibility and still carry forward the partnership relations with the countries that I’ve discussed.
Much has been done on our part, bilaterally, but hopefully it will also continue to be done at European level, through partnership and mobility agreements and also with the ability to assist these countries in documentation ID to control their borders.
But we also need to cope with planning for the integration of people who move for reasons of a growing population in this region of the world, or on humanitarian grounds from disasters like the one that happened in Syria.
Luigi Spinola:
Minister Terzi, thank you very much.
Giulio Terzi: ~~~ Thank you.
</text>
<text>
With Europe still mired in recession, euronews asked the former President of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, to consider the results of efforts to stabilise the region, and if he still thinks the eurozone is taking the right medicine.
Giovanni Magi, euronews: “ Are austerity policies really the best solution, or, as some economists are saying, are they simply an application of counterproductive dogma?
”
Jean-Claude Trichet, former ECB President: “ I believe that words count.
We talk about austerity as much in the United States as in England, or even in Japan, in a country with a very big current account payment deficit, like Greece or other countries which are in excess.
The term [austerity], I think, is inappropriate.
“ There is a need for wise, healthy management, when one is spending more than one is earning.
For what reason?
It is not really a choice but an obligation, because, I’d say, generous donors are no longer to be found – eternally ready to finance the countries that spend far more than their income.
And it seems to me that sound management is the best way to lay the groundwork for future growth and job creation in the future.
”
euronews: “ But we get the impression that, on the world chess board, Europe seems to stand alone with its obsession for public accounts.
”
Trichet: “ No, I don’t think we can say that.
There is major pubic debate in the United States, over whether the first thing to do is to place the stress on putting the public finances back into working order, or not.
This is also under debate in England: austerity or growth.
Europe is still the epicentre of the global crisis of sovereign debt risk and, therefore, budget crises. ~~~ Unfortunately, that is partly its own fault, because, in some cases it was negligent.
 ~~~ “ It was and still is the epicentre, if I may say.
But I think we still have to look at things clearly: Europe has made enormous progress.
It is still at the very crux of this crisis but it has distanced the risk of catastrophe thanks to the decisions it has taken – governments, the European institutions and the Central Bank.
Therefore, we are now at a stage where we absolutely must consolidate everything which might permit a return to growth.
”
euronews: “ What lesson can we draw from the Greek or Cypriot crisis?
Perhaps some economies were too feeble to be admitted into the euro zone?
Or are the stronger euro zone economies not ready to pay a high cost to protect the poorer members?
”
Trichet: “ First of all, saying that countries are necessarily richer or poorer is debatable, you know.
Our problem today is that there are countries, fortunately relatively numerous, that are competitive, that sell their goods and services comfortably on the domestic, European and world markets, and have good reasons for that, because they have a good grip on their costs and structural reforms; and then there are countries that have mastered their costs far less well, and which have not reformed structurally, and these countries are evidently in difficulty. ~~~ 
“ So, I believe that the great lesson is that there has to be a staggering improvement in the economic and budgetary governance of the whole euro zone.
It has to be very firm when this or that country becomes dangerous to itself and to the entire zone.
”
euronews: “ Are you in favour of a European economic and budgetary federation?
What should its criteria be, and do you think that would be a realistic route for Europe to take today?
”
Trichet: “ I do believe we need to go further along the path of a European economic and budgetary federation, which obviously would mean a new change in the Treaties.
Personally, I think there are several possibilities to consider.
One of them seems imaginable to me, though I don’t say it’s the only one, and I’m not saying it’s necessarily the best, but I think it fulfils three criteria.
 ~~~ “ One: it is efficient, which I will develop for you; two: it is democratic; and three: it respects the principle of subsidiarity.
These three things appear essential to me.
If a country manages its affairs very badly, does not respect recommendations made to it by the European Commission and the Council, and in doing this endangers the euro zone’s stability, as we have seen amply in the crisis, then there are sanctions that are supposed to act as a deterrent – sanctions in the form of fines.
I don’t believe that works.
It hasn’t worked in the past and I don’t think it will in the future.
 ~~~ “ Instead, what I myself see as more realistically imaginable is, instead of fines: activate a federal decision process at the level of the European institutions taken together.
The Commission plays the role of government, it anticipates a government; the Council of governments is a sort of upper chamber, a Senate, and the European Parliament with its members elected by direct universal suffrage and who will be elected in the next European poll, act as the lower chamber.
I suggest that the Commission say: here is what needs to be done; let the Senate, the upper chamber, think about it and then say to the European Parliament: here’s what we think, and then the European Parliament decides – evidently limited to the representatives of the euro zone, and after contact with the national parliaments.
 ~~~ “ That is a federation – we have ‘activated’ federal institutions.
But they respect the principle of subsidiarity, because this is not applied generally; it would only be in absolutely exceptional cases, and when the stability of the whole zone is in question.
It’s evidently democratic.
The ultimate decision is taken by the representatives of the people, and that makes it relatively certain that these are not just empty words, and that this is not an ineffective dissuasive measure of fines.
”
euronews: “ There is an alignment being formed in Europe, notably with France, Italy and Spain, who are adopting an approach of reasoning by dialogue with the policy of German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
How do you see that?
”
Trichet: “ I don’t share that feeling.
I am too deeply attached to the friendship among Europeans, and of course the friendship between France and Germany, to either rule out or not see that, beyond this or that agitation, there is a real will to move forward together, and a real will to overcome the difficulties that Europe has encountered systematically, that it has dealt with and responded to in a way that is indisputable when we look at everything that has been done at this terribly difficult time.
”
</text>
<text>
A new work by Joseph Stiglitz, ‘The Price of Inequality’, is bad news.
We interviewed the Columbia University Professor and Nobel Economics laureate about his latest book, in Paris. ~~~ Stiglitz is a former senior vice-president and chief economist of the World Bank.
 ~~~ Gianni Magi, euronews:
“ In your book you showed how expensive inequality is for American society.
What could happen if this trend of increasing inequality is not stopped?
”
Joseph Stiglitz:
“ We’re clearly going to wind up with a more divided society.
We will also wind up with a less productive economy, because one of the important aspects of the inequality in America today is inequality of opportunity, which means that young people, if there are born to poor parents, do not get a chance to live up to their potential, so you’re wasting one of the most valuable resources.
“ When you have a very divided society, like we have today in the United States, it means that it’s very hard to have political consensus.
So, there is a breakdown of the politics, of the democratic process.
And that means you’re aren’t going to get the kinds of consensus behind investments – in infrastructure, technology, education – that are necessary to make a productive economy.
”
euronews:
“ Do you think that, from this point of view of inequality, Europe is in the same condition as America?
Stiglitz:
“ No, Europe is better.
What is so striking, that I point out in my book, is that the United States is the country with the greatest inequality in market incomes, does less to remedy those inequalities so, after tax and transfer, inequality is greater than in any other country of the advanced industrial countries, and America is the country with the least equality of opportunity of any of the advanced countries.
But what worries me is that, increasingly, some countries in Europe are imitating the American way.
“ So, it already happened in the UK, where 30 years ago the UK was just average in the degree of inequality among the OECD advanced industrial countries.
Today it is number two behind the United States.
You still have a group of countries, the Scandinavian, the Nordic countries which [have] very strong economies but [which also have] much more equal societies and societies with much more equality of opportunity.
But countries in the European continent are drifting more towards the American style, and I think that it’s a concern.
”
euronews:
Do the austerity policies implemented by some countries in Europe increase social inequality?
Stiglitz:
“ Very much so.
The reason inequality, austerity, is particularly bad in the current context is that the underlying problem is the lack of demand, lack of total demand.
 ~~~ “ So, when you have austerity, demand goes down; when demand goes down, growth lowers, unemployment increases.
When unemployment increases, wages get driven down as people compete for jobs; social services get cut back.
So, every aspect of inequality gets exacerbated.
”
euronews:
“ What should European governments do to tackle the euro zone crisis?
Stiglitz:
“ First, you have to remember that the major source of the deficit is the weak economy, not the other way around.
It wasn’t the deficit that created the weak economy; it was the weak economy that created the deficit.
“ So, the first focus should be on: how do we restore growth?
There are a number of things that one can do, including expanding government investments in infrastructure, technology, education, expanding the European Investment Bank, mutualisation of the debt, so [that] interest rates can come down, which will give more money to spend in productive ways rather than sending large checks to the bankers.
”
euronews:
“ So, you are in favour of an increased role for the European Central Bank in the management of the euro zone crisis?
”
Stiglitz: ~~~ “ Yes.
It’s one of the institutions that has the capacity, already, to make a big difference.
But one has to make sure that it follows the right policies.
Recently they said they are willing to buy [an] unlimited number of bonds.
But they said: we’ll impose conditions.
They haven’t said what those conditions are, but if they’re like the conditions they have imposed in the past, they will be conditions of austerity.
“ So, with one hand you hold out a life raft; you hold out a medicine that can help them and then you take it away; you give them poison.
You tell them: ‘you have to go into depression … To save you, I will kill you’.
It doesn’t make any sense.
So, the ECB has the capacity to help.
The question is: will it?
”
euronews:
“ Recently, some banks have been accused of making up the Libor, the primary benchmark for short-term interest rates around the world.
What lesson should we draw from this scandal?
”
Stiglitz:
“ The banks really don’t have a command over what they’re doing.
And they have propagated financial products that are unsound, manipulable, in some sense putting at risk the whole financial system.
“ The problem is there is such an overhang of this: of contracts, derivatives, bonds that are specified in terms of the Libor rate, Libor rate plus one, Libro rate plus two, Libor rate plus a half percent; all predicated on a number that is manipulable, a fiction.
What are we going to do about this huge financial market that has been created on something that makes absolutely no sense?
”
euronews:
“ You wrote about the difference between what politicians should do for the economy and what they actually do.
Is this a criticism of Barack Obama, too?
”
Stiglitz:
“ Yes, unfortunately.
You know, every politician has constraints.
I may know what the right thing is but other people have different views, and the job of the political process is to weigh different views, make compromise between different interests.
“ So, I understand that it is in some sense the role of the politician to take in all those forces; but, in the end, they are also supposed to stand above all those forces and to make a judgement of what is in the best interest of the country as a whole.
Unfortunately, they have listened too much to the one interest: the banks.
”
</text>
<text>
Hubert Védrine was France’s Foreign Minister from 1997 – 2002.
We met the veteran Socialist diplomat during the Brussels Days debates on Europe.
He spoke frankly and openly about the Syrian conflict and Europe today.
Audrey Tilve, euronews: “ Hubert Védrine, thanks for being with us.
Before discussing Europe, I’d like to know your view on Syria.
Dismantling its chemical arsenal has started but without the least political solution in sight.
There’s talk of a hypothetical peace conference mid-November; do you believe in that?
Hubert Védrine, Former French Foreign Minister: “ Can that work?
I don’t know.
It’s very complicated.
In any case, the West will not get an agreement in advance for Assad to leave.
So this has to be a conference where we accept that he is here and try to think of how to go forward, perhaps about a transition.
We can look at the problem from all angles.
But it would be better to have this Geneva Two conference than not.
Then there’s the question of representation of the opposition and the rebels, tricky because there are so many of them, and not all on the same line.
But if the Russians and the Americans agree – because arranging neutralising chemical weapons, was tense but did work – they’ll also find a solution on that.
”
euronews: “ Is it surmountable, Bashar al-Assad’s refusal to negotiate with any of the rebels as long as they are still armed?
Or is that a starting out point for bargaining?
”
Védrine: “ It’s bargaining.
Anyway, what’s far more important isn’t the way he sees things but how the Russians see things.
It’s not impossible, after all, that one day the Russians end up finding him a burden in all this; they are not linked to Assad the man, but rather: they’re attached to their position in the region.
They haven’t kept many handholds in the world; yes, Putin skilfully transformed his disruptive power into something else over the matter of chemical weapons, but they don’t have much leverage or influence in the world in general, so they really are counting on Syria in relation to that.
euronews: “ There are also two million refugees in the Syrian conflict; neighbouring countries are practically being asphyxiated.
In Europe, Germany has taken in 18,000 Syrians since the start of the conflict; Sweden has accepted 11,000.
France last year accepted 600 asylum requests, and 800 more so far this year.
Isn’t that quite weak for a country loudly proclaiming solidarity with the Syrian people?
Védrine: “ I think that in cases of a tragedy such as this, as far as is possible, if refugees can be taken in under proper conditions – which they aren’t being – not too far from their own territory, not too far from where they have extended family and things like that: it’s even better.
The Europeans’ priority – if they managed to agree – should be to give infinitely more help to Turkey and Jordan and so on.
I think France has the margin to take more.
But I don’t want to play a moralist role about it.
It’s too complicated, and in any case on top of it we’d need to have a better coordinated migration policy.
euronews: “ Staying with Europe’s asylum and immigration policy for a moment, with the drama of Lampedusa, more than 300 deaths of migrants trying to reach Europe: the outcome is that European governments have committed to doing more for safety and rescue in the Mediterranean.
But a majority still refuse the idea of spreading the migrants around Europe to relieve the countries where they first arrive.
What’s it going to take to achieve that?
”
Védrine: “ Firstly, I think a very clear distinction must be made between asylum and immigration.
A right of asylum corresponds to people whose lives are in danger because they are persecuted for umpteen reasons; there’s a very strong legal basis.
It is Europe’s honour to preserve that right of asylum, and if we want to preserve it in the long run, it mustn’t be mixed up with immigration.
That’s completely different.
Immigration is evidently economic misfortune.
Across the board, it’s about regulating the flow.
What Europe lacks is concerted effort, at least the Schengen countries, if not more, in which we could say every year – because there’s a need to adapt to economic conjunction; in the coming year, we are capable of taking in, under proper conditions this or that many people – and we need them.
Or by skill set, and not by country, which makes no sense, but by skill set.
And that can be tightened at certain times because unemployment is too high or relaxed at others.
There’d have to be a sort of thermostat for that.
”
euronews: “ Since your domain is diplomacy, let’s talk about that in Europe.
It’s now three years since the European External Action Service was created; is a common foreign policy still an illusion?
”
Védrine: “ Yes, I think so.
But I never believed in one anyway.
The idea we’ll create a European diplomatic service just off the bat is completely out of reach; it’s a typical example of an illusion leading to disillusion.
euronews: “ But Catherine Ashton’s services are very active, on some matters even cutting edge: Kosovo, relations with EU eastern neighbours, a nuclear Iran … ”
Védrine: “ Of course, they’re doing their best, but that doesn’t carry any weight in the end.
Ask Chinese leaders or Obama.
It doesn’t count.
That’s not a criticism.
It’s unsolvable.
The EU never had a position.
”
euronews: “ You think there’ll never be a powerful European diplomacy?
”
That has to be organised.
There has to be the courage to admit we have different positions, that that is absolutely legitimate, that it’s history, and that’s the way it is.
”
euronews: “ Now, about the next major test for Europe: the European elections, which are going to be held seven months from now.
Polls and observers predict that anti-Europeans will make big gains; what’s the lesson in that?
”
Védrine: “ Well, maybe they’re doing terribly well in the European Parliament, that really is a pity, but it’s a sort of breaking out in acne, a manifestation of crisis.
”
euronews: “ No more than that?
”
Védrine: “ What difference does it make?
You counter that with firm decisions that make the European system work for subjects that people are sensitive about.
Then they’ll say, ‘hey, the European machine is responsive’.
If not, we’re in for the shock, take it seriously, without turning it into an awful drama.
Anyway, remember that in Germany the court in Karlsruhe considers that the European Parliament isn’t democratic enough and so isn’t legitimate enough, and I believe one of the good responses for the years to come is to reconnect the national parliaments.
That is, after all, possible, since there are clauses in the Treaty of Lisbon to do more of that.
At a level of political legitimacy, about how to do away with public opinion that is only eurosceptic but not euro-hostile to the European machinery, I think that’s up to the national parliaments.
”
euronews: “ Hubert Védrine, one last question: what would you change, if you could, in what we call ‘institutional Europe’?
”
Védrine: “ Well, I’d change what I’ve just said: plug national parliaments back in.
I don’t think the European Commission should be made into a sort of government of Europe.
It’ll never happen anyway, so why go disappointing people saying it will?
On the other hand, it has to retrieve its role as instigator, innovator, which it had in the time of Delors, which was a great time.
But it’s a question of behaviour, it’s not a question of changing institutions.
And, on the whole, I’m not at all in favour of a new treaty.
I think that to throw ourselves into elaborating a new treaty now is asking for endless disputes between the countries taking part and a completely haphazard ratification, even in the parliaments, so that there’d have to be a referendum.
So, that’s a very bad idea.
Let’s stop making new treaties every three of four years; it’s a question of having the political will.
”
</text>
<text>
French Minister of Economy and Finance Pierre Moscovici has found the time in his first year and a half in that job to write a book about it.
We interviewed him on the European dimension.
Giovanni Magi, euronews: “ One of your goals, as you have written in your book “ Combats ” , is to re-orient European policy to make Europe an area of economic growth.
The latest forecasts show that this goal has yet to be achieved.
Is it a matter of time or is it necessary to change policy? ~~~ ”
Pierre Moscovici, French Economy and Finance Minister: “ We are seeing that the euro area and the whole of Europe are coming out of recession.
We really have put recession and excessive austerity behind us.
The second conclusion is that we have to go further to ensure that Europe really is an area of growth, prosperity and social progress, since growth and social justice go together. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ There is clearly a problem of governance in Europe; you also write that the European crisis is political rather than economic.
Is it realistic today to push towards a European political union? ~~~ ”
Moscovici: “ Yes, I think so, and in particular it is necessary to strengthen the governance of the euro area.
France is making – I am making – several proposals: the first is to create a budget for the euro zone to play a counter-cyclical function, including a common base for ensuring minimum unemployment compensation.
The second thing is it’s important that in the next parliament, to be elected next May, that it be an assembly which represents the euro area countries, so that we can talk together about common legislation.
I also suggest that there be a permanent and exclusive President of the Euro Group who is not a minister in his own country.
In my mind it should also be the Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs; he would be a sort of Minister of Finance for Europe and the euro area, be a clear voice capable of helping to fix positions.
Adding a fourth proposal, I say that we absolutely must have a banking union.
euronews: “ About a banking union, an agreement on the monitoring mechanism has been found, but the implementation of the single resolution mechanism looks more difficult.
Will it be possible to find a common position with Germany? ~~~ ”
Moscovici: “ We’ll have to find those common positions.
What is true is that we are in a somewhat intermediate position, as Germany, following its elections, is involved in coalition talks which are long, complicated and demanding, since the coalition agreement must be an extremely accurate document.
But I’d like us to reach an agreement on the mechanism of resolution by the end of this year, 2013.
And – this is fundamental to me – we must finally make it so that without going through governments the European Stability Mechanism that we created can intervene in direct recapitalisation of banks that need this solution.
euronews: “ Standard & Poor’s recently downgraded France’s credit rating.
At the same time we are witnessing, in France, the explosion of protest movements against taxes.
One has the impression that there are not many people who believe in your policy reforms.
Moscovici: “ First, a word about Standard & Poor’s.
The rating agency downgraded France, reducing its rating.
I note, however that it is still a credible, serious country.
The markets – investors – have shown that they continued to trust in France, since the effect in terms of interest rates – the so-called spread – was zero or nearly zero.
I find that Standard & Poor’s – why I say that the critics were excessive and inaccurate – has not given sufficient confidence in the strength of reforms which we support.
For the rest, to talk about the climate in France: what is true now is that we need to put our fiscal reforms mainly toward savings in public spending.
The tax leverage, the weariness expressed, is also due to our compulsory levy rate above 46 percent.
I am a strong supporter of taxation; citizens’ agreement to being taxed is a Republican action, and taxation is the major driver of welfare state tools that the French people want.
But at the same time we are finding it is difficult to go further, which means that flexibilities are to be found on expenditure savings .
euronews: “ In the last year, France has had 1,000 social plans for workers’ layoffs; others are unfortunately on the horizon.
Is it realistic to expect a reversal of the unemployment trend by the end of the year? ~~~ ”
Moscovici: “ Yes, because first we must fight social plans.
A social plan doesn’t mean that all jobs are lost; fortunately, lots of jobs are saved; companies find solutions for buyers, and so avoid total social employment destruction.
The government is fighting, the government is in a battle against social plans to lay workers off.
There is another feature of France that is all those companies that are performing well, companies that are investing, new companies that create jobs, but about which we do not talk enough.
Sometimes our media don’t talk about success stories.
There is also a France that is successful.
I’ll tell you straight: I am fed up with it, because France is the fifth-largest economy in the world, the second-largest economy in Europe, followed by Italy.
It is, therefore, a great country, and I would like the French to have confidence in themselves, in how they shine out in the world and in Europe.
We deserve better than the way we currently look at ourselves, deserve to be seen better than we are sometimes seen from the outside.
” ~~~ euronews: “ In your book, you write that about a cabinet reshuffle, that it’s not a question of “if”, but “when”.
Even in the Socialist Party today there are voices seeking a reshuffle.
Is it the right time, in your opinion?
” ~~~ Moscovici: “ Listen, I stand by what I have written in this book.
Being minister isn’t a lifetime position; I was minister from 1997 to 2002, and you’re a former minister for longer than you are minister.
More than anything, one is available, one is ready to serve one’s country, one is available to the Head of State.
It is François Hollande, the President of the Republic, who is the time keeper.
In the meantime, there is a government working around a very strong man: Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, who is completely on the job, all the time.
” ~~~ euronews: “ In conclusion: you have a lot of experience in Europe.
If you are offered a European Commissioner’s post in 2014, will you accept?
” ~~~ Moscovici: “ I am France’s Minister of Economy and Finance and I am a convinced, passionate European; everybody knows it.
I don’t consider the European Commission as an opposing force, as it is sometimes seen in the French political landscape.
I think of it as a partner, and I have devoted much of my life to building up Europe.
I simply do it wherever I am.
I’m Minister of Economy and Finance, I’m in the Eurogroup, I’m in the Ecofin Council.
I advance the cause of Europe in France and the cause of France in Europe.
I am not tired of what I do, and as long as I can be useful to my country and to Europe, that’s where I feel the best.
</text>
<text>
French Socialist President François Hollande returned from his summer vacation a few days ago.
He has a lot of work to do, into a stiff headwind of criticism from the conservative opposition and the Left Front, and public opinion polls showing that many of the French people doubt his abilities.
He began with international affairs, notably Syria.
The opposition have reproached him for a lack of action while France is chair nation of the UN Security Council, but on Monday he held informal talks with the Syrian opposition’s new international mediator.
Hollande wants a political solution in Syria, based on President Bashir Al-Assad’s departure.
He also has the euro crisis to face.
Despite their differences, he will try to present a united front with German Chancellor Angela Merkel this Thursday ahead of a fateful few weeks for Greece’s eurozone future.
Merkel will then host the Greek prime minister in Berlin, then Hollande will see him, on Saturday, in Paris. ~~~ 
But the French people want him to turn his attention to matters at home.
He has already kept some of his campaign promises, and undone measures taken by his predecessor’s government.
Among the heavy tasks he has yet to accomplish, he needs to decide next year’s budget.
Unemployment is still rising in France and growth is at zero but Hollande has to find savings of 33 billion euros to reduce the deficit to 3 percent from 4.5 percent now.
This economist says: “ We’ve never known things to be as difficult as this.
Taxes have to rise, though French purchasing power is already stretched.
Public spending has to be reduced although the French are intently asking for more to overcome their economic difficulty. ~~~ ”
Petrol prices are an important part of that difficulty, with unleaded costing up to two euros a litre or more.
One of Hollande’s election promises was to freeze prices that have been shooting up.
He has compromised with a modest and temporary lowering of state tax on petrol.
He also applied a partial measure on the French favourite savings account, the Livret A, the interest on which is tax-free.
He promised to double the ceiling on it, to use inflow to fund social housing, but so far he has upped it by a quarter, to just over 19,000 euros.
Public order is another key subject.
The Socialists’ approach is looking similar to that of the previous government: tough, after the handling of rioting in a poor part of the city of Amiens and breaking up Roma gypsy camps.
A meeting today was called to decide how to restore the Hollande government’s image and to work on France’s future Roma policy.
We interviewed minister for Women’s rights and spokesperson for the government Najat Vallaud-Belkacem.
Gianni Maggi, euronews: Early criticism of the new government’s first 100 days has increased, not only from the opposition and certain commentators but also from parties more to the left than the government itself.
How do you in the government view the first few months of activities?
Najat Vallaud Belkacem: We have not stopped for a minute, through decrees: responding to the urgency of French people’s purchasing power, giving the minimum wage a helpful nudge, re-evaluating the allowance for going back to school; we have stuck to our commitment to make it possible once more for people who have been working for a long time to retire.
Above all we have applied all the commitments we made to govern in a different way, which is extremely important.
All that contributes enormously to making our mark.
euronews: There are several difficult dossiers waiting, keeping the heat up after the return from the holidays.
What are the government’s priorities?
NVB: We’re coming out of a ministers’ council at which we reviewed all the texts we are going to adopt.
These are eminently important reforms.
We are going to start with an extraordinary session of parliament in the second half of September, to be dedicated to two subjects that are the main worries of the French people: jobs and housing.
We are going to create 150,000 jobs of the future which are meant for young people.
As for housing, because far too many French people are badly housed or not housed at all; that’s why we have to create 150,000 jobs per year.
Right afterwards we’ll adopt a regulation in the price of energy, because we see that what puts a great pressure on French wallets is gas and electricity.
And there will be other.
Before the end of this year, in autumn, the major law on school reform will be enacted, a real structural reform that the country needs.
euronews: With the financial law of 2013, should French people expect real austerity measures, comparable to those in Italy or Spain?
NVB: We don’t want austerity, really, it’s not only a problem of words or semantics, it’s a political problem.
We figure that if we want to put the country on the rails to growth, first the purchasing power of the French has to be supported, not weakened.
We absolutely have to give ourselves prospects, for example to return to employment.
The state has to support sectors and invest in sectors that are likely to create jobs.
Austerity goes against everything I’ve just talked about.
Austerity is saying: ‘we have to stop breathing, we have to cut, cut, cut.’ Yes, all right, we will cut, but nothing will come of it.
We have no chance of bouncing back after austerity.
We’d die in good financial health, certainly, but we’d die, whereas our intention is to live.
euronews: One criticism is that till now the response to security problems has been exclusively through police deployment, and that this isn’t really that different from the previous government.
NVB: What we say is extremely clear.
Uncivil behaviour and delinquency has to be fought firmly.
But at the same time territories have to be given an outlook.
We bring another response that is not only one of security, and that is what the minister in charge of urban policy, François Lamy, did today in the Council; he presented his work programme, which is going to consist of using all the legal instruments, for example the future jobs that I’ve just mentioned, the construction of housing that I talked about, and so on – to invest in such a way as to reinforce, and then later to invent other ways to collaborate, so that, quite simply, these residents live in neighbourhoods that are made peaceful, and that at the same time have things to look forward to.
</text>
<text>
Meet the author of a work about staving off our own extinction: Jeremy Rifkin, who advises the European Commission.
He has just published ‘The Third Industrial Revolution’, which argues that the human species is coming to the end of a cycle.
In it, he looks at economic desperation, climate change and the exhaustion of fossil fuel supplies, and contends that only a sweeping adoption of alternative energy sources and what he calls ‘lateral power’ will ensure that we enjoy our future, and prepare a happy one for our children. ~~~ 
Maxime Biosse Duplan spoke to the author on the terrace of the Fine Arts Museum in the French city of Lyon, where euronews is based, about awareness of our whole biosphere.
Maxime Biosse Duplan, euronews: Mr Rifkin, you’ve said it is highly unlikely that human beings will manage to survive on this planet.
We hear a lot of talk about economic crisis, but you say we are threatened with extinction.
Isn’t this vision a bit pessimistic?
Jeremy Rifkin: You know, 99.5% of all the species that have ever lived on this planet have come and gone.
It is hubris to believe that somehow we are going to live in perpetuity here.
And so I think this is a moment of crisis.
We are now paying the bill for 200 years of an industrial revolution based on fossil fuels.
We spew too much CO2 and methane and nitrous oxide into the atmosphere.
We can’t get enough of the sun’s heat off the planet, and what we are seeing here is a fundamental change in the chemistry of the Earth.
That doesn’t happen often.
 ~~~ So, as my wife says, “ we are not grasping the enormity of this moment for our species ” .
This is a species crisis. ~~~ Can we turn the corner?
Can we address climate change?
Can we create a more sustainable economy?
Can we do it with the clock ticking, and can we transform ourselves in less than 25 years?
It’s a pretty big ‘if’.
euronews: One of your conclusions is that we must move into this ‘third industrial revolution’, which you say has to be carried by five fundamentals, five pillars, you call them.
What are these ideas?
Rifkin: The European Union has committed to a five-pillar third industrial revolution.
I was privileged to develop the plan with the EU.
It is the formal plan endorsed by the European Parliament and now working its way through the European commission.
Pillar 1: the EU is committed to 20% renewable energy by 2020. ~~~ That’s a mandate: every country has to do it.
Pillar 2: how do we collect what are essentially distributed energies that are found everywhere? ~~~ Our buildings.
We have 191 millions buildings in the European Union!
Homes, offices, factories. ~~~ The goal is to convert every single existing building in the European Union – millions of them – into your own personal green micro-power plant.
You can get solar electricity off your roof, you can get wind electricity off your sidewalls, geothermal heat converted back to energy underneath the building, garbage converted to energy in your kitchen, etcetera.
 ~~~ Pillar 2 jumpstarts the economy. ~~~ Millions of jobs, thousands of small and medium-size enterprises.
Because we have to convert the entire building stock of Europe in the next 40 years into a power plant.
 ~~~ Pillar 3: we have to store the energy because the sun isn’t always shining, or sometimes the wind is blowing at night and you need the electricity during the day. ~~~ They are intermittent energies.
If the sun hits your roof, you create a little electricity, if you don’t need some of it, you put the excess in water, hydrogen comes out of the water into a tank.
When the sun isn’t shining on your roof, you convert it back to electricity.
euronews: [This is all] existing technology?
Rifkin: All of this technology already exists.
It simply has to be scaled in.
Pillar 4 is where the Internet revolution converges with the new distributed energy revolution to create a nervous system for this infrastructure.
So when millions and millions of buildings in Europe are collecting their own green energy on-site, storing it in hydrogen, like we store media in digital, then if you don’t need some of that electricity, your software can program it so you can sell your electricity across the electricity Internet, (with what we call) a smart grid, from the Irish sea to the edge of eastern Europe.
Just like we create our own information, store it in digital, share it online.
The last pillar, Pillar 5, is transport.
Electric vehicles are out this year, fuel cell vehicles are out in 2015, you’ll be able to plug in your vehicle anywhere there’s a building, get green electricity or hydrogen, and wherever you park, plug back in, get green electricity or sell your own back.
Each of these components alone are nothing, they are meaningless.
When you put the five pillars together, in each city, each suburb, each rural area, they create an infrastructure, a node.
And the node is a completely new economic revolution.
It’s power to the people. ~~~ It’s lateral power.
euronews: A lot of companies and people have interests that go against your theory of the ‘third industrial revolution’.
Have you been subjected to pressures from lobbies, key figures, from enterprise, concerning your theories?
Rifkin: Let me put this into context.
You know, the music companies, they didn’t see file-sharing of music coming.
When millions of young people around the world started creating software to share music, the music companies thought of it as a joke, then they got upset, then they went out of business.
So I guess the answer to your question is … I’m not too concerned about the energy companies.
We have far more distributed renewable energy than we’ll ever have the little amount of fossil fuels or uranium underground.
Some of the energy companies will make the transition – they are trying – into renewables.
Many of them will not, and as their energies get more expensive and more polluting, they’ll just die out.
We don’t need them.
What we will see here, with this Third Industrial Revolution infrastructure, is a ‘renaissance’ of small and medium-size enterprises, and producers and consumers cooperatives.
The big companies that survive, they will transform their role and they will be aggregators of networks, because they have the logistical reach.
euronews: You talk about small and medium-size companies.
Might they have a role to play in countries with emergent economies, such as China or countries in Africa, within this third industrial revolution framework?
Rifkin: In terms of the developing countries, they’re going move quicker on this.
They’re going leapfrog in. ~~~ The United Nations Industrial Development Organisation has embraced the Third Industrial Revolution as a centrepiece for economic development across the emerging nations.
In many parts of the world, there’s no electricity.
300 million people in India have never had electricity.
Millions of people in Africa, no electricity. ~~~ They can leapfrog in.
They have no infrastructure.
So where there is no infrastructure in Africa, and the Indian parts of Asia, they can develop it right now.
euronews: In 20 years, how would you like things to evolve, and how do you think they really will evolve?
Rifkin: Let me say I think my hope is that we will see a change in consciousness.
We have had mythical consciousness, religious consciousness, ideological consciousness.
We are now starting to see the early stages of biosphere consciousness.
I know that this Third Industrial Revolution makes sense, it is compelling, it is practical, it is deliverable, it isn’t rocket science.
What we need to do now is: government, business, and civil society come to the table in every community and put this Third Industrial Revolution infrastructure in, and get us into a post-carbon sustainable world very, very quickly.
There is no ‘plan B’.
</text>
<text>
His good looks once earned him the title of ‘The Mick Jagger of literature’.
 ~~~ The author of The Rachel Papers, Money and London Fields, among others, is considered one the best British novelists alive.
 ~~~ Earlier this month, he attracted a large crowd at the International Novel Sittings in Lyon, in south-east France.
He was there to promote his latest book, Lionel Asbo, but speaking with euronews also talked about his soon-to-be published novel, set during the Holocaust.
Chiara Reid, euronews:
I am very happy to be here with the British writer, Martin Amis. ~~~ You are about to publish a new book – perhaps in the new year – about a love story set in a Nazi concentration camp.
You have written about the Holocaust before, in ‘Times Arrow’. ~~~ Why is the Holocaust so important to you?
Martin Amis:
“ Well, I think it is important to everyone in some strange way.
W.G.
Sebald, the German-English writer, said that no serious person ever thinks about anything else, which is a slight exaggeration, but there is a certain sense in which the Holocaust as a subject defines you and judges you, and you find out a bit more about yourself in your response to it.
”
euronews:
You said before that you can’t write about the Holocaust without suffering, you can’t just type it away on the keyboard: why do you have to feel it?
Martin Amis:
“ A writer’s life is half ambition and half anxiety, and there has to be both.
It is no good writing a novel and feeling fine, and it is no good writing a whole novel feeling miserable.
It has to be both, that mixture of anxiety and ambition, and you get that with every novel, but more so when you write about these epics of human suffering.
I felt that just as much when I wrote about the Gulag.
Every writer knows what that is.
The process goes … you have to think: ‘This novel I am writing is no good.’ Then you have to think: ‘All my novels are no good.’ And then, when you reach that point, you can begin.
”
euronews:
You also wrote a lot about violence and the British underclass, in Lionel Asbo for example.
At the Woolwich barracks we have seen a British man, a Muslim, kill another British man, a soldier, in broad daylight in central London.
The London you have written about so much, how do you think it could produce this?
Martin Amis:
“ Well it has many traceable threads.
What we are probably going to have for a while is what they call “ anomic ” terrorism, terrorism of alienation, anomic terrorism, where a deep misery, which might well have to do with feeling separated from your roots and might well have to do with your feelings about your brothers and sisters in foreign countries, who have suffered at the hands of the West, but basically it’s an alienation and depression on your part, and you want to do something spectacular about it. ~~~ ”
“ Joseph Conrad, in a novel of 1908 – which is incredibly prescient, it is about terrorists, anarchists in London – said the two elements are vanity and laziness.
So, because you are conceited and vain, you want to make a huge impression on the world, you want to be remembered, but because you are lazy the only way you can do it is in this explosive way.
It is a very deep urge in human beings to be immortal, to make your name live, it is why we have children up to a point, to continue, to go beyond death.
”
euronews:
Do you think you will go beyond death with your books?
Martin Amis:
“ If everyone wants immortality, then writers want it more than most I think, it is true.
Because, in fact, only time judges the quality of art, nothing else does.
The rest, criticism and so on, it is just rhetoric.
”
euronews:
How much time does time need to judge?
Martin Amis:
“ A century … if you are still around in a century, then that’s a great tribute.
That’s why when I see young readers of my books I look at them with a special interest because I know that, when I die, it will go on for at least another 30 or 40 years.
You don’t want to disappear completely and having young readers guarantees that, at least for a while.
”
euronews:
One last question: you left Europe to go to America for family reasons – we know that you haven’t turned your back on Europe.
But don’t you feel that, in a way, you left a sinking ship, looking at the crisis in Europe, how does it look from the other side?
Martin Amis:
“ It seems a very good time to leave, the weather is collapsing and various sorts of social turbulence … I think Europe is resilient enough and has an enormous history, five centuries of being the centre of the world and producing the ideas that shaped the world.
It may be that it is in decline like all the individual countries in it, in geo-historical decline.
”
euronews:
Is this theme of crisis, economic crisis, of interest for your novels? ~~~ Maybe we will read this in your next novel, is the Holocaust novel a parody of what is happening now?
Martin Amis:
“ Maybe the novel after.
It takes three or four years before the present day sinks in to you as a novelist.
It has not just to be accepted in the mind but travel down your spine and fill your body and you can’t respond immediately to immediate events, there is this incubation period.
”
euronews:
So you are incubating it now?
Martin Amis:
“ … Beginning to incubate it, yes.
”
Image credit: Maximilian Schönherr (CC)
</text>
<text>
The European Central Bank (ECB) may be poised to take decisive action against low inflation rates in the euro area.
Combined with credit constraints, low interest rates have been identified as a risk to the eurozone’s fragile recovery.
Euronews spoke to Peter Praet, chief economist at the ECB, about eurozone monetary policy, consumer confidence and the key talking points ahead of next month’s discussions.
Maithreyi Seetharaman, euronews: “ Professor Praet, thanks very much for your time.
We’ve had people trained to think about high inflation as a big problem.
Now we’ve got low inflation, it’s around that one percent mark.
Is that the new normal, and how do you tell people – everyday people – that this is something you need to worry about in the medium term, the long term?
How do you view it?
” ~~~ Peter Praet: “ If supply is bigger than demand so you get some pressure on prices.
It’s really a sort of barometer that expresses some imbalances on the economy, that’s why you should be worried.
In a symmetric way, if demand is bigger than supply you get inflation and on the other hand you get some deflationary pressures.
euronews: “ If you look at the barometer and the projections from the ECB itself, inflation has surprised you.
Is this a whole new normal we don’t know how to deal with?
Peter Praet: “ There is weak demand because a lot of households, a lot of companies, a lot of states have high debt, so they reduce their spending compared to the capacity of the production of the economy.
So, you get pressure on the pricing system which are more on the downside, which is a little bit the new environment that we have.
” ~~~ euronews: “ What can be done at this point because quite a few economists say things should have been done two years ago? ~~~ ”
Peter Praet: “ It’s a complicated question.
But the first thing is to identify what is the cause of this subdued price pressure.
What we see today, in the more recent period, is that the slack factor dominates.
The weaker oil price in the low inflationary picture that we have.
“ Second, I think we cannot say the ECB didn’t intervene.
We know from market behavior that we had episodes of fear, real fear of deflationary pressures.
That means that households and market participants didn’t know how the ECB would react to some crisis factor.
“ The episode we have now, the context we have now, is a more structural sort of pressure on prices which is the result of slack in the economy and so we have been taking accommodative monetary policy.
Monetary policy is the interest rates close to zero, but also other tools that we have been putting in place.
euronews: “ Can we ask what exactly are the measure that the ECB is planning to take?
Peter Praet: “ Well, I think the governing council meeting will discuss, of course, but there are a number of things you have to see – what is the main impairment in the transmission of your monetary policy.
And so, we have margin on rates as you know.
“ Interest rates are going to remain low. ~~~ Not only today.
Interest rates in the US, the long term interest rates have increased in the US because the situation is improving in the US.
But we have been able to – contrary to the past – to decouple our interest rates from the US, that means policy remains accommodative.
We will see how the discussions go, but we have identified a number of impairments in the transmission of monetary policy and we are working on these issues. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ There has been a conversation about negative rates.
Are we looking at a situation where credit slows down even more?
Peter Praet: “ I think you allude to two things.
Before we take the decisions we want really to see what is the real problem we are trying to address.
And that’s what we are doing now.
Is credit really too weak because of the environment – and which you cannot really do much about on that – or is that a specific lending supply of loans from the banking sector?
In the context which I explained where the banks are in a process of cleaning up their balance sheet and of recapitalisation.
So, we are working on that.
But we have identified indeed that the lending channel is something which raises a number of questions about our transmission.
euronews: “ Are we now going to expect low inflation for the medium to long term?
Peter Praet: “ I think now, the biggest problem as I see it is that a number of households are revising downwards their long term expectations about the future.
What will our future be?
And that leads to a sort of negative expectation trap..
which is a delicate..
” ~~~ euronews: “ How do you address that?
Peter Praet: “ Well, its very difficult because central banks cannot really answer to these questions by just printing money or providing liquidity.
It is part of the solution I think, but it’s basically recreating positive expectations about the future – which is job opportunity, which is unfortunately structural reform, its education – you know it’s all these things, which are much more important of course. ~~~ 
“ And it is true, the biggest challenge we have today is to recreate in the public – but that’s a more political question – to recreate within the public, positive expectations about the future and that’s not what you see today in many countries.
It’s more disappointment and negative expectations about the future.
 ~~~ “ We are looking, as I said, at some of the aspects which is basically putting financial conditions, favorable financial conditions, so that when firms decide to invest they will not have a constraint on the credit side.
euronews: “ Do you see the similarities that many people point out with Japan and Europe now? ~~~ ”
Peter Praet: “ No..
I think all the situations are different.
I think one of the similarities in many of the economies unfortunately is the debt level that we find.
I mean, debt ratios are relatively high.
“ I think one of the major differences with the Japanese situation is that we are absolutely addressing the banking sector issue now.
 ~~~ “ And also in monetary policy the reaction has been quite forceful since the beginning of the crisis, which was not always the case in Japan in recent years.
I think the societies are very different.
We have a lot of issues related to what we now call design flaws in the construction in the euro area.
We have to address them.
We are doing that and the banking union is one part of the solution.
euronews: “ Do you find that the mandate of the ECB sometimes holds you back from how much more you could do? ~~~ ”
Peter Praet: “ No, I wouldn’t say that … ”
euronews: “ I ask because you mentioned employment as a key thing and structural reform, which is why you wonder.. ~~~ “
Peter Praet: “ Sure..
Sure..
I think it’s very dangerous also to give too many illusions to the public that what creates jobs, what creates wealth is monetary policy.
It’s always dangerous also to give too much, you know, credit..
which [creates] an illusion that monetary policy can solve all the problems. ~~~ 
“ The situation in the US and here has been quite different as you know.
In the euro area we went into a crisis with very weak crisis management institutions, crisis management for banks for example.
In the US you didn’t have that.
And also much more flexible labour markets in general.
So we were in a very difficult situation.
“ Now we are starting to get out of this, but a lot of damage has been done.
There is a lot of slack in the economy, so there is some price pressure.
So it’s true that we are not in deflation, but we are in a sort of a situation of sort of slow growth, low inflation and we are not satisfied about that and we said very clearly that we wanted to address that and we are responding to that in our mandate. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Queen Elizabeth II, there is no taking it away from her, has got staying power.
It is as if she had taken the United Kingdom’s national anthem (the part that says ‘long to reign over us’) entirely to heart.
She has been head of the realm for 60 years, just three less than Queen Victoria – and still counting.
Many of her subjects have been showering her with adoration at Diamond Jubilee celebrations up and down the land.
The constitutional monarch of many sovereign states with ties to Britain, she has held her throne since after her father, King George VI, died in 1952.
Her coronation took place on 2 June 1953, in London’s Westminster Abbey.
She was 26. ~~~ She proved her dedication to the role she had inherited, as her former imperial nation evolved in the years after World War Two and it decolonised rapidly.
She travelled widely, with her husband Prince Philip, and they had four children: Charles, Anne, Andrew and Edward.
Diamond Jubilee events have been so numerous as to fill more than four days – while Victoria’s, a hundred years ago, were wrapped up in one.
In the face of criticism in a time of some economic angst, and predictable grousing from more republican-minded Britons, there is no denying Elizabeth’s popularity.
Royal-watchers wonder if any successor will ever be able to match this.
On the occasion of the United Kingdom’s royal jubilee, euronews went knocking at Number 10 Downing Street for a few informal words.
As he approached the threshold, our London correspondent said: In her 60-year reign, Queen Elisabeth has had 12 prime ministers.
I am here today to see her number 12, about her years as a monarch and her role today.
Ali Sheikholeslami, of euronews, asked David Cameron: Prime Minister, you first met the Queen when you were nine years old.
How did it feel then and what is it like to be her twelfth prime minister today ?
David Cameron, British Prime Minister: Well, when I met her when I was nine years old, I didn’t ever expect to be her prime minister.
I remember being a little boy and being very excited and being rather amazed that I had this opportunity.
But the moment you never forget is getting out of the car and walking into Buckingham Palace and going up the stairs to be asked by the Queen to form a government – although in my case, of course, I had to say it will be a coalition government , so I’ll do my best to form a government and I’ll come back to you if I manage.
But fortunately I did.
euronews: And what is, in your opinion, the significance of the Diamond Jubilee for Britain as a country and how far would you say the country has come during the reign of the Queen?
Cameron: The country has come a huge way.
When you think 60 years ago we were still after the Second World War, with rationing and all those problems and difficulties and we are a country transformed since then.
I think what we’re celebrating really is two things: first of all a unique individual record, of 60 years on the throne, dedication, service, commitment to her people, to the Commonwealth, to the world and people can hardly think of a foot that she put wrong in those 60 years of remarkable record of public service.
I think we’re celebrating something else in Britain, which is the institution of the monarchy.
All countries want to have that combination of stability and institutions that reflect their history, but also democracy and choice and freedom.
And I think in Britain we’ve found a good way; it’s not everybody’s way, but our way to deliver those two things and I think the monarchy has served us very well in that respect.
It’s above politics, it’s a symbol of national unity and as you can see from the celebrations it brings people together.
euronews: And you meet the Queen every week.
Many in the UK and abroad wonder whether it is just a jolly British tradition.
Or is it?
Cameron: No, it is an important part of the constitution, because the Queen is the head of state.
Obviously, we’ve evolved into a situation where the elected Prime Minister and the government takes the decisions and the Queen is the ceremonial head of state.
But I think it’s an important function for the prime minister to see the monarch every week to set out the problems and challenges here and around the world, to explain themselves, to explain what the government is doing to the head of state and obviously the Queen – who’s on her twelfth prime minister, who started with Winston Churchill, who’s seen it all, who’s heard it all, who’s travelled all over the world, who knows virtually every head of state and every head of government – can give some very good advice and ask some very, very pertinent questions.
euronews: With the Olympics around the corner, what will the games mean for London and for Britain as a country?
Cameron: Obviously, it’s a big year for Britain.
It’s a year where we can show ourselves off to the world.
Right in East London the Olympics are transforming an area which was very rundown.
And there’s a physical transformation taking place.
But I think even more important than that is to open up to the world and say look: here is a country, yes, we have our economic difficulties but we have the European single market on our doorstep, we’re between the timezones of America and Japan, we’ve got the English language, the language of business, some of the best universities in the world, a vibrant business scene, great culture, art, science and the rest of it.
Come and visit, come and see.
It’s a great opportunity for Britain, and I hope, also, it will switch young people onto sport and competitive sport, in a way that will leave a really lasting legacy into the future. ~~~ Follow Ali Sheikholeslami on Twitter
</text>
<text>
Former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev says Russian president-elect Vladimir Putin will have to make democratic reforms in the face of opposition complaints of election fraud.
Gorbachev told euronews that restoring confidence in the Russian political system would be a key challenge for Putin: ~~~ “ Even if he wanted to go back to old ways, he couldn’t do so in this current situation.
Moreover, I think we soon will have to change things – namely, elect a new parliament, because we knew how this election happened and in what conditions.
” ~~~ The 81-year-old also expressed his support for third-placed candidate Mikhail Prokhorov:
“ I liked Prokhorov – maybe because we’re fed up with all the others.
He has fresh ideas, new ways of presenting his vision and he has a lot of experience in business.
But he has a lot to learn though like the rest of us.
The full, exclusive interview will be broadcast on euronews from ten thirty PM Central European time tonight.
</text>
<text>
On his first EU summit, the new Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti was one of the protagonists of the long marathon to save the euro and strengthen fiscal discipline in member states.
Monti played the role of mediator between the UK and the others, seeking agreement between the 27.
Euronews Margerita Sforza spoke to him and first asked him if the agreement reached on Friday is enough to save the euro?
Mario Monti: “ Well, I hope so.
I think so.
Anyway we will soon see.
It is a significant agreement because it makes it more likely in future that countries will behave in a disciplined way regarding their budgets, so that we will not see these serious imbalances which lead to crises in various euro zone countries.
‘And it is also important because this summit has put in place a series of instruments and finances to allow us to react to the problems of one country without any immediate contagion to another or any spread of ‘the flames’ and this is why we talk about a firewall.
”
Euronews: “ The Brussels agreement has opened up what is being called a, ‘two-speed Europe’.
What do you think of that?
”
Mario Monti “ I want to be quite precise on this. ~~~ It is not the birth of a two speed Europe because it already exists now or has existed in many different forms, for example there are countries which have signed up to the Schengen agreement, there are those in the euro and those who are not in the single currency.
‘In this case Britain had specific problems.
Faced with the need, especially Germany and France, to change the treaty in order to strengthen fiscal discipline, Britain said it would only change under certain conditions, ones that others did not accept.
”
Euronews: “ During the negotiations you acted as the mediator between Britain and other European countries.
What was it you least liked about this role?
”
Mario Monti: “ Britain’s Prime Minister David Cameron demanded guarantees for the City and to protect it and the country from potential new financial regulations in Europe.
This seemed unacceptable to many European leaders as well as myself.
‘So I suggested, and always from the perspective of the single markets interest to the British, that he, David Cameron calls on countries in the euro area to do something to move forward and not backward.
For example looking at and working for a faster development of the digital agenda project for the single market.
But he was interested only in the guarantees to protect Britain and not in moving forward step by step so to speak and so the agreement failed.
”
Euronews: “ So in the end Great Britain has closed the door?
”
Mario Monti: “ It is hard to say, but at least it will not be among the 27.
In any case, I did note a strong desire not to “ expand the Channel ” in other words not to distance Britain from the other countries.
”
Euronews: “ What are the consequences of Britain’s ‘No’ for the EU?
”
Mario Monti: “ It is not going to be that relevant because the European market will continue substantially to be developed by the 27 member states.
And given that the UK has competition and the single market in its own DNA, staying in would have been a stronger move with benefits for all 27 countries ” .
Euronews: “ The European Financial Stability Facility has been increased to 500 billion euros starting next year. ~~~ Do you think those funds are sufficient?
”
Mario Monti: “ My position was that the need to increase these funds and that a major “ firewall ” , as we refer to the fund would not necessarily lead to greater expenses for the countries that contributed to it.
The increase of the fund would indeed have been sufficient to prevent market tensions so I believe contributions would not represent a real expense.
‘But several European countries have a very limited view of what is the common interest.
Anyway, if you look at this “ night package ” , it was agreed after a long night of negotiations, we can say that the result was not optimal as I would say, but certainly very good.
”
Euronews: “ The eurobonds are still a taboo in Europe or is it only in Germany?
”
Mario Monti: “ Not only for Germany but also elsewhere. ~~~ In my opinion we have enough arguments to convince the Germans that it is healthier to have eurobonds than, for example of pooling everything, this is done with the collective issue of the public debt quota of the different countries, a deliberate and conscious act, rather than as an afterthought and in a way forced through the purchase by the ECB of bonds of countries that are not in a healthy financial state.
”
Euronews: “ Until now the watchwords in Europe were,austerity, rigour and discipline. ~~~ When do we begin to talk about growth and how to boost growth in Europe?
”
Mario Monti: “ In recent years there was talk of rigour and discipline because in previous decades, before Europe took on a critical consciousness, the watchword was “ seeking development at all costs ” , even at the risk of causing inflation and public deficit.
‘Today’s policies are the consequence of the mistakes of the past.
Now Europe must have a vision of reaching a more balanced way, and there has to be European policies that can fuel growth.
For example, a major integration of the single market, increasing economies of scale and competitiveness of European industries in the world.
”
Euronews: “ Italy has presented a budget which includes particularly harsh pension reform.
it will bring the country in line with European parameters, but the labour market remains precarious, especially for young people and those over 50, who are often the first victims of corporate restructuring.
How can you ensure stability in the workplace?
”
Mario Monti: “ It is easier said than done.
This is a very important objective both economically and socially.
In creating our economic policy which we have prepared with a sense of urgency we have provided specific tax breaks for companies that hire young people and women.
That I believe is taking us in the right direction, but more must be done and we will do more.
”
Euronews: “ To address the debt crisis Italy and Greece had to call on technocrats.
Did that signal the failure of politicians or a certain way of doing politics?
”
Mario Monti: “ I hope and believe that is not the case.
Maybe I’m not the best person to give you a neutral assessment, because I am one of those technocrats now working on the inside, so to speak.
”
</text>
<text>
Like many countries in Europe, Italy is struggling with problems of its own making following sleaze, scandal and corruption, although it has received some credit after taking measures that have begun to turn things around.
On the eve of the Italian general election, euronews spoke to Dario Fo: intellectual, playwright and actor, he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1997.
Today the “ Can’t pay?
” writer accuses banks and those in power of demoralising the Italian people.
euronews: “ Dario Fo, as at other times in your career, you’re currently concentrating on your painting.
So I ask you how and what colours you would paint with to represent Italy today.
”
Dario Fo: “ Unfortunately we’re in a situation, where the colours are grey.
At best there are shades of purple, orange and red.
This is because ‘there’s no vibration, there’s sadness, there’s disaster.
The crisis has destroyed any enthusiasm and joy.”
euronews: “ In your latest works, is there any hope? ~~~ Where is the hope?
”
Dario Fo: “ There is one positive thing, It’s the fact that we’re doing all we can and not giving up.
I see many people who don’t surrender and who look for the best solutions, who look for new approaches.
It’s not only about surviving, it’s about something new, a change of approach.
”
euronews: “ Let’s now jump into your past, to talk about the Nobel Prize for Literature you won in 1997.
‘For Dario Fo’ – and here I’m quoting the Swedish Academy – ‘who, inspired by the jesters of the Middle Ages, castigates the powerful and restores the dignity of the oppressed.’ Who are the powerful that Dario Fo castigates today and why?
”
Dario Fo: “ The banks mostly, and the big entrepreneurs.
All those who hold the reins “ the show within a show “ , ie those who – through the media, television and in other ways – make every effort to ensure that the people accept the conditions they find themselves in.
”
euronews: “ You’re following Italy’s election campaign with apprehension .
What worries you the most?
”
Dario Fo: “ I’m not worried about the same things as the politicians because I feel like an outsider.
I’m tired of the way they think of the relationships between people, it’s clear I can’t feel pity for these politicians who only risk their jobs.
The politicians have just got into a workplace routine, they no longer have a mission, and this is accepted because the voters trust them.
”
euronews: Is it still possible to be passionate about politics?
Dario Fo: “ It’s all become degraded in a very short time, all that had been created over centuries.
Hope and trust have been destroyed as well as the value of laws, the community, justice … especially justice.
”
euronews: “ When and how did this destruction come about?
”
Dario Fo: “ If there isn’t a system which is strong, solid, and based primarily on culture and knowledge, which instils in the collective consciousness equality, freedom and justice, then everything collapses .
There are many who praised the sleaze, real scam artists.
“It is not even worth naming anyone in particular.
they are all like this, just look around you: the first one you see, he’s one of them.
”
euronews: “ In today’s politics for a few years now, it’s considered a good thing to be moderate.
You, however, have always proudly claimed not to be.
What’s the problem with being moderate?
” .
Dario Fo: “ Above all the staging, the mask.
The mask of a good person, kind, who’s never hurt anyone.
But it’s really a trap.
They appear nice and gentle in their mannerisms and gestures; they never let go, they never have fun, they never play, or dance.
I’ve never seen a moderate person dance and party with people.
They stay in the corner, not to be seen and not not be discovered.
”
euronews: “ In 1994 he went into politics in a surprise move.
He then had a long career and today in 2013 he is back and running for re-election.
Obviously we’re talking about Berlusconi.
You’ve said much about him in the past, how do you see him now?.
”
Dario Fo: “ Just yesterday I did a satirical performance drawn from Buster Keaton.
It was about a statue in a large room, and all around there are characters who are trying to keep up.
They move in all directions, they leave, they come back, they try to support it with mechanical devices, to keep it balanced.
But the statue falls, it’s on the verge of breaking.
But they stand it up and it’s still OK.
It comes back, but each time it’s closer to the abyss.
”
euronews: “ But it never reaches it. ~~~ ”
Dario Fo: “ Here we must be patient “ .
euronews: “ One last question to finish, what are your hopes for Italy in the future?
”
Dario Fo: “ Freedom.
Breaking free from any obstacle; from infamy, hypocrisy and bondage, which robs us of our lives.
To become again master of our own lives: this is exactly what I wish my country.
”
</text>
<text>
Romano Prodi, former president of the European Commission and ex Italian prime minister, recently attended a conference on new challenges faced by the European Union.
Euronews met him to discuss his views on a stronger alliance with eastern European countries, as well as other key issues. ~~~ 
Giovanni Magi, euronews
“ To be more effective, the European Union must progress towards political union.
Is this a realistic path, in your opinion?
”
Romano Prodi, former President of the European Commission
“ In the long term, it is necessary for our survival.
In the short term, political unity is difficult.
Tensions were heightened, then came the ‘euro or no euro’ debate … ~~~ “ Europe is broadly divided at the moment.
It is nothing new.
In the past we even had the so-called ‘empty chair’ of France, a founding country of Europe, so I’m not pessimistic.
However, a lot of patience and understanding is needed.
No European country – not even Germany – is large enough to compete alone on the world stage.
Solidarity between European countries is imperative.
”
euronews
“ In many countries we are witnessing a resurgence of Euro-scepticism – towards the EU, but also towards the single currency.
Is it purely the result of the recent economic crisis, or is there more?
”
Prodi
“ It is a consequence that the recent economic crisis has highlighted.
When we built the euro, we put specific defense mechanisms in place.
It was clear throughout our discussions: we will do this, then this, then this.
And then came fear across Europe: fear of globalisation; fear of the Chinese; fear – even within Europe – of the Polish plumber.
This weakened us, and the crisis has highlighted these weaknesses.
”
euronews
“ Has the economic crisis been appropriately-managed, in your opinion?
”
Prodi
“ Appropriate … If sleeping counts as appropriate, then yes.
Because, except for the European Central Bank, which worked well, we slept.
We became lost in endless technical debates, without addressing the real problem of Europe’s soul, without addressing the real problem of what we are doing in the world …
Even with regards to the technical management of the crisis.
For example, when the crisis – which was caused by the United States – happened, Obama lent us $800 billion (€588.5 billion), China immediately put in $585 billion (€430.3 billion), and Europe ran for years on a few tens of billions of euro.
In short, it really highlighted all of the political difficulties that must be overcome and that will only be overcome when we feel the pressure of globalisation breathing down our necks. ~~~ Only then will we finally understand that we have been marginalised.
”
euronews
“ How will we best re-establish the confidence of citizens in the European Union, to make the Union more popular? ~~~ Are there changes to be made?
”
Prodi
“ First of all, to have a more popular Union, we need to have at least a sense of solidarity.
I am not talking about charity, but rather interested, intelligent solidarity. ~~~ 
“ I believe that, for example, the policy of austerity, imposed as part of the recent short-term vision, has not helped Germany at all.
I have done every conceivable calculation, and found that austerity merely slowed Germany’s growth at a time when it could have been extremely strong.
“ But we must also understand that, with 28 countries in the mix, it is unrealistic to expect unanimity in decision-making.
The idea is contradictory and inconsistent. ~~~ It is clear that in order to restore the confidence of European citizens, we must promote the message that you can decide, you must not let small differences hinder the resolution of any problem that occurs.
“ Finally, it is clear that the established system of government in Europe is not capable of making Europe great.
”
</text>
<text>
The staunch Europhile, who is calling for the creation of a United States of Europe, is also the front runner in opinion polls ahead of the Italian election.
euronews: “ In Europe it is still not clear whether Monti is a right-wing moderate or a left-wing Christian-Democrat. What’s your take on this? ”
euronews: “ How do you feel about leading Italy without having full support from the financial markets? ”
euronews: “ Mr Bersani, you decided to have former anti-mafia State attorney Piero Grasso running for your party, is this a clear warning against organised crime? And are you thinking about him as a possible minister of justice? ”
euronews: “ But Berlusconi says it is his Government that put all the criminals in jail … ”
Pier Luigi Bersani: “ Berlusconi says a lot of things! Unfortunately, criminals are still around and their “ dirty economy ” is still penetrating the clean economy. ”
euronews: “ About the ‘black hole’ of youth unemployment – which is particularly high in southern Italy, but also in all European countries – what would be your strategy on that, if you become prime minister? ”
</text>
<text>
An interim deal between six world powers and Iran signed late last year saw the temporary freezing of Tehran’s nuclear programme in exchange for an easing of some international sanctions.
The UN’s atomic watchdog, the IAEA, has been tasked with carrying out inspections to make sure Iran keeps to its side of the bargain.
Ahead of fresh meetings between Iranian officials and the IAEA, euronews spoke to the agency’s Director General Yukiyia Amano.
</text>
<text>
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, in an interview with euronews, has made clear that he will not be deterred by American opposition to his moves toward statehood.
His strategy is to garner international recognition, in order to force Israel to acquiesce. ~~~ 
Both Israel and the US objected to the admission of Palestine on October 31 to UNESCO.
Euronews spoke with Abbas during his recent visit to further his cause in Brussels.
Charles Salamé, euronews: “ Mr President, if we could begin with a word about Palestine joining UNESCO. ~~~ ”
Mahmoud Abbas:
“ Palestine’s membership in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation represents a lot, politically and morally, since we have asked the Security Council to let Palestine be a member of the United Nations, and this request still stands.
At the same time, we wanted to be in UNESCO, which is a very important organisation, as it has close relations with people all over the world. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ The United States has suspended its financial participation in UNESCO.
” ~~~ Abbas:
“ The US was against our adhesion to UNESCO not for any convincing reason.
What reason was that?
They said that since 1989 there has been a law which forbids the United States from participating financially in organisations that deal with terrorism.
We responded that we don’t think we are terrorists, and that if this qualification could be attributed to us 22 years ago it cannot be today.
“ The proof is that Palestine has political and economic relations with the US, which is a member of the four-part commission, but its answer was that it is an old law that it cannot change.
It is clear that this is an unjustifiable position, which is to say it is illogical for them to say that relations are broken for an unreal reason.
euronews: “ What news is there about dialogue with Hamas?
” ~~~ Abbas:
“ Around one month ago, I had talks with (Hamas leader) Khaled Meshaal, and we laid down the basis for an eventual agreement.
That is what is going to be discussed on 18, 20 and 21 December in Cairo.
”
euronews: “ This Sunday, Israel is going to free Palestinian prisoners.
What do you expect next?
”
Abbas:
“ What happened is that the soldier Shalit was kidnapped, negotiations for his liberation lasted for five years, and a deal was reached between Hamas and Israel, with Egyptian mediation.
At times Germany intervened, to set the number of prisoners to be exchanged.
There were 1,027.
Four hundred were to be let go in a first phase and the rest in a second phase.
“ But I had made an agreement with the former Israeli prime minister Ehud Olmert: when Shalit was set free, Israel would free as many prisoners for the Palestinian Authority as were covered under the deal with Hamas.
“ Netanyahu condemned this agreement.
Even President Obama stepped in around a year ago, and he told me he would talk to Netanyahu about freeing prisoners, and that is what he really did, informing me that Netanyahu had accepted.
I responded ‘the same goes for me’, and then it was all forgotten.
“ So, the prisoner question is not only solved through good will but also by transactions and attempts, or pressure coming from one source or another.
euronews: “ An unavoidable question on the situation in the Middle East region as a whole is what is happening in Syria.
What impact do events taking place in Syria have on Palestine?
” ~~~ Abbas:
“ The official point of view is that we are not involved.
We are not getting mixed up in what is happening.
But we do state our respect for the will of the people, we approve of what the people are asking for; but we observe, and we do not step in, whether it is in Tunisia, in Egypt or Syria.
We are watching the Syrian events, no more.
And of course we feel sorry for the victims and those killed, and about what we learn about the incidents and the trouble.
But our position is as I have explained. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ One last point, President Abbas: you met French President Sarkozy in Paris, and the President of the European Council, Van Rompuy, in Brussels, and Iceland has recognised the Palestinian state with the 1967 borders … ”
Abbas: “ We are a people under occupation; we claim our independence; we believe in peace; we believe in international legitimacy; we practise the culture of peace in our country; we complete institutions; we have had positive declarations from the international central bank and donors, who say that our accounts are transparent and that this transparency is not found in many countries.
So, what are we missing?
The main problem is that Israel refuses and the United States approves, and we are always in negotiation to convince them that peace is not only in the interest of the Palestinians but also the Israelis and the region, internationally.
Therefore pressure must be brought on those who refuse, and who stand in the way of peace.
I say to them: ‘Here is our position.
Frankly and clearly, tell me where my mistake is, and I am ready to correct my error.’ But they don’t find any error. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Can culture give sense to Europe?
That is a question euronews put to Umberto Eco, the Italian intellectual, scholar and novelist.
After addressing the Liberation Forum, Eco spoke to euronews about the end of the Berlusconi era and the crisis in Europe in his usual direct fashion.
Frédéric Bouchard, euronews: “ Umberto Eco, the question of forgery is at the heart of your latest novel, ‘Cemetery of Prague’.
To quote from the novel “ It is the hidden things behind things.
” Is that a definition of Silvio Berlusconi?
”
Eco: “ No, my novel is about forgers, people who produce false records.
Well, Berlusconi has done that to get rid of political opponents, if you want you can make a connection with that, but since my novel is about the Protocol of the Elders of Zion – a text purporting to describe a Jewish plan for achieving global domination – and its effect on humanity, I dare not say that Berlusconi ever acted on that scale.
”
euronews: “ How was Berlusconi able to stay in power for so long and lead the government in Italy?
”
Eco: “ Berlusconi was — is — a great communicator, he is a charmer, certainly a charmer of the public, the middle-aged people who are 50 or older, who watch TV and see him on TV.
But he could not have a majority, he always worked with a 30, 40 percent lead and an electoral law that allowed him to dominate the parliament.
”
euronews: “ To dominate for a very long time.
”
Eco: “ A very long time.
Fortunately the rest of Italy managed to resist. ~~~ How could Italy accept Berlusconi?
A German journalist asked me the same question, I answered him by asking how was Germany able to accept Hitler, how could France accept Vichy?
“ Go back to the early 1990s and the crisis and allegations of corruption with the Christian Democrats.
There was a huge void, Berlusconi had the political intelligence and the ability to make alliances with no ideological issues, just as in a cattle market, he created allegiances.
Then the Catholics — with reported scandals surrounding him — withdrew their support, so there was no room for Berlusconi in politics.
”
euronews: “ But so far, the fact Silvio Berlusconi is no longer in power is due to an external crisis, which actually affects Italy, the euro crisis, it is not due to the resistance of the Italian people.
”
Eco: “ I don’t agree, during the year he has been subjected to constant criticism from most of the press, intellectuals, etc.
It was used to damage Berlusconi’s image, to show his weaknesses, and then at some point Berlusconi had to yield to the fact that he was not accepted by the European leaders.
His fall coincided with the fact that Italy is now represented by a respectable man.
”
euronews: “ What is your opinion on how Mario Monti became prime minister, do you think there is a crisis with European democracy?
”
Eco: “ No, the Italian Constitution can be considered the most advanced in the world because it was created ​​after the end of the second world war and to “ regulate ” against the risk of a dictatorship.
It means the President of the Republic, which is elected by parliament, in certain circumstances can propose to parliament a government that can be approved or rejected by parliament.
So everything went according to the letter of the Constitution.
”
euronews: “ There was no financial coup then?
”
Eco: “ No, ah, unless you subscribe to a universal conspiracy, a paranoia, you can say that the Jews are behind the Freemasons, I’m …
euronews: “ No, it was mostly on a sociological level look at the example of Greece, the example of Italy, the lack of a referendum in Greece.
”
Eco: “ There were financial problems, as in other European countries, which Berlusconi was unable to solve, even some of his supporters began to distance themselves, and since he had created a law approved by himself — which was quite a mistake — in which the deputies were not elected by the people but appointed by the President-elect, it meant he surrounded himself with, ‘yes men’.
They are people with no morals, they were ready to betray him and they did.
”
euronews: “ Is the euro crisis a theme, an inspiration for a new novel for you?
”
Eco: “ No. ~~~ You believe that writers are the oracles that there isn’t a question which the novelist can’t answer.
The writer though can raise a question, and there are questions that a writer cannot answer, but it’s a question that a writer can ask.
You believe the euro crisis can be a positive thing to create new ideas like this?
”
euronews: “ So in this crisis, what can culture do to solve the crisis?
”
Eco: “ I can’t solve the economic crisis, I am a victim like the everyone else, I lost some … .
”
euronews: “ Is it possible that culture can give Europe a ‘raison d’etre’?
”
Eco: “ I’m just saying that there is a European cultural identity which cannot be clearly defined because it is intangible, but it does exists: using it as a base we could start to unify Europe, to think of a political Europe, an economic Europe.
But I can’t talk about an economic Europe; I am not competent in that area and it would be dishonest to discuss it on television.
”
euronews: “ Precisely, the economic Europe is faltering, can culture provide some answers?
”
Eco “ No.
”
euronews: “ Is there not an opportunity?
”
Eco: “ No, I do not believe that culture can change the course of the markets, not even Homer could do that.
”
euronews: “ At this difficult time for Europe and the EU is your sense of European citizenship still strong?
”
Eco: “ Very strong, yes very strong since my youth!
”
</text>
<text>
Luis Moreno Ocampo was the Chief Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court for nine years.
The ICC is the first permanent court ever created to try war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide and aggression.
He made ​​his international reputation by acting as a prosecutor in the trial of the Argentinean military junta.
He recently handed the baton to Gambian Fatou Bensouda .
Euronews talked to him before he left The Hague.
Raquel Álvarez, euronews: Luis Moreno Ocampo, you’re relinquishing your position as Chief Prosecutor, of the International Criminal Court, just as the ICC reaches it’s tenth anniversary.
Have you accomplished what you’d hoped?
Luis Moreno Ocampo: I think so.
The Court is the Nuremburg court for the future.
We launched it, made it work and now it continues to work.
So yes, we did complete a cycle, a phase.
euronews: You’ve talked about your memories of starting off with only three people working in your office.
How has everything changed since then?
Luis Moreno Ocampo: I came when there were 18 judges waiting for my inquiries. ~~~ There were three employees in my office.
We had six empty floors, everything had to be built up, invented.
Fatou Bensouda will take charge of the bureau with 300 people working in it.
There are clear and efficient working procedures.
There are lots of ongoing judgements and the office is working at its best.
euronews: You know who’s going to replace you: you’ve both worked very closely: she’s a woman and she’s African.
What challenges do you think she’ll face?
Luis Moreno Ocampo: Fatou inherits a well equipped office, but she’ll also inherit a world that is much more conscious about the power of Law and that might work against us.
Her being a woman represents an interesting aspect because this is a new world where being a woman offers new perspectives.
At present, there are lots of women with power, I think that if they connect with each other, it could produce an extremely interesting alternative.
euronews: The ICC started off with limitations when the USA, Russia and China didn’t sign the Statute of Rome.
This is an essential framework of the Court, and so they aren’t forced to recognise the work of the ICC.
Is this a limit of its legitimacy?
Luis Moreno Ocampo: No, on the contrary: the most powerful countries not being part of the ICC is in itself, a sign of the ICC’s legitimacy.
The court is there to protect the weak, not the strong.
The powerful countries who haven’t signed up, is proof the court works.
It’s a matter of time.
When I started everyone was hostile towards us.
Two years later the Security Council accepted to put the Darfur case before the Court.
Last year they voted unanimously for the court to intervene in Libya – so things are changing.
We’ve been accepted.
The ones who don’t work with the ICC prove the court is working.
The reason why they don’t is fear.
So, their absence shows how legitimate the Court is.
euronews: The strongest criticism you’ve received is about your “ geographical distribution ” .
Luis Moreno Ocampo: When president Bashir was prosecuted for genocide, he tried to justify himself by saying we were focusing on Africa too much.
It’s incredible: people seemed to believe him: journalists asked me about this “ deviation ” over Africa, and not about Darfur.
The problem is that president Bashir has been accused of genocide in Darfur.
But now, I no longer talk about Africa, I only mention it when talking about the genocide in Darfur.
euronews: The Al Bashir case is also an example of the challenges the Court faces: For example, the Sudanese president was able to move freely through different countries without arrest.
Luis Moreno Ocampo: This challenge, regarding the Countries, is for the Security Council.
It’s up to them to find a way.
At the moment Bashir is a fugitive.
Malawi for example denied him entering their country.
Lots of other countries denied him as well.
He goes where he is safe from arrest.
Anyway, the Court for Yugoslavian war crimes put 161 people on trial.
Do you know how many of them were caught?
50%?
20%?
How many do you think?
euronews: How many?
Luis Moreno Ocampo: All of them.
No one escaped.
It took eighteen years.
The last one, Ratko Mladic, was arrested a few months ago.
But in the end we got him. ~~~ So Bashir will be arrested one day.
In the meantime women are getting raped and children are dying of starvation.
This is the price.
euronews: The ICC doesn’t have its own police force, or army to investigate and carry out inquiries and arrests in the countries who do not collaborate.
Are you putting your collaborators in danger?
Four people working for the ICC have been imprisoned in Libya, what happened?
Are they in danger?
Luis Moreno Ocampo: Security is a big subject for all of us and I am proud of it.
The Prosecution office made more than 600 missions worldwide and no investigators or witnesses were ever injured.
Now the problem is that people from the public defence have been temporarily arrested in Libya.
It proves that people who work for the Court run risks on a daily basis.
euronews: As far as I can see, Libya was a milestone, due to the unanimous decision of the Security Council.
So what was your reaction towards the lynching and death of Gaddafi?
Luis Moreno Ocampo: The whole world reacting and asking for justice on the Libyan case, is evidence of a global evolution.
The court was able, in a few months, to investigate and prove both Muhamar Gaddafi’s, and his sons crimes.
The fact that Gaddafi was executed without a judgement is not good.
Nevertheless, the two other people were arrested.
Now the problem is who is going to judge them?
An easier question.
Justice will be done. ~~~ We only have to decide who will be doing it.
euronews: I think it must be frustrating for you to see the same things happen again and again – with the Arab revolts, like what’s happening in Syria.
Only this time the Security Council hasn’t asked you to open an investigation.
Luis Moreno Ocampo: Nothing is frustrating for me.
Everything is a fascinating apprenticeship.
Being a prosecutor was a great privilege, not a frustration.
Victims are the ones who are frustrated.
Now it surprises me, that the world is talking about why the ICC hasn’t intervened in Syria.
Nine years ago nobody would ever think it could be possible for a Court to act in such conflicts.
So, if we look at this, we realise the great changes that have taken place.
The world has changed.
Expectations are different and now there are institutions that can give answers to these expectancies.
Our being charged with the Syria case is up to the Security Council.
euronews: These last few months have been very important for you: In December for the first time a head of State was on trial facing the Court, the Ivorian president Gbagbo.
Then, in march, the court announced its first guilty sentence against the Congolese rebel leader Thomas Lubanga.
Luis Moreno Ocampo: This is the result of what we’ve been doing for nine years. ~~~ It’s the end of nine years of work.
The truth is that we can’t fail. ~~~ We can’t fail with Thomas Lubanga, and we can’t fail with Gbagbo.
At the beginning they said: “ they are just dealing with militias ” . ~~~ Now three heads of State are on trial.
They say: “we only pay attention to Africa”.
Well we’ll keep going …
euronews: Someone you wanted to collaborate with as an adviser is Balrtasar Garzòn, a very well known Spanish prosecutor.
At present, he keeps being suspended from his role in Spain.
What’s your reaction to the accusations and condemnation that provoked his suspension?
Luis Moreno Ocampo: I asked Garzón to come and help us because he spent his whole life investigating people in the establishment, powerful people, and now he’s paying for that.
So I can say yes, if you investigate or if you judge powerful people you put yourself in danger.
This is why the ICC is sometimes criticised.
euronews: You said the umpire is always unpopular.
Luis Moreno Ocampo: Of course he is.
Look at a the Barcelona – Real Madrid football match, everybody makes accusations against the referee.
And, that’s interesting, because fair play doesn’t just depend on the referee.
For this reason, the ICC is not sufficient to avoid violence.
The players have to respect the rules.
euronews: As an Argentinean you really do like your football.
Luis Moreno Ocampo: Of course.
euronews: FIFA has asked you to stop corruption in football.
Will you accept this as your new job?
It would be interesting to see you try something different.
Luis Moreno Ocampo: There is a reform committee inside FIFA that proposed FIFA create an ethical commission with powers of inquiry and they recommended me.
So it’s up to them.
FIFA can choose someone else.
Nothing is certain.
Let’s wait and see. ~~~ euronews: So what if FIFA say yes?
Luis Moreno Ocampo: If Fifa offer me this position then I’ll deal with it then.
When I was a lawyer in Argentina, I was in charge of reforming corrupt organisations.
It was part of my former job.
This is the reason why, I think, FIFA’s reform committee suggested me.
Let’s see what happens.
By the way, I am going to be on holiday for a while, from September I think and I’m opening a law firm in New York, and if FIFA calls me, we’ll see.
euronews: Luis Moreno Ocampo, thank you very much for your time.
</text>
<text>
Italy’s former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi has launched a scathing attack on leading European parliamentarians within his own centre-right bloc.
It comes as polls show his centre-right coalition making rapid gains ahead of next month’s elections.
In an exclusive interview with euronews, the head of Italy’s opposition People of Freedom Party criticises the European People’s Party leader Joseph Daul for backing his rival Mario Monti.
Berlusconi believes the EPP’s support for Mario Monti is based on him wanting closer ties with Berlin.
“Daul is just one of the EPP’s 14 deputy presidents.
Maybe he has a personal ambitions.
Don’t forget he speaks German better than French, because he is from Strasbourg.
He just wants to be somebody to give a boost to his political career,” said Berlusconi.
He also dismissed claims of having personal issues with other prominent European Politicians such as Martin Schulz and Jean-Claude Juncker.
</text>
<text>
In the first round of Afghanistan’s presidential elections (held on April 6), Afghans went to the polls in defiance of threats from the Taliban to disrupt the run-off vote on Saturday 14 June.
We discussed this with Interior Minister Mohammed Omar Daudzai.
Maria Sarsalari, euronews: “ The first round of the elections was successful, largely due to the Interior Ministry’s performance in providing security.
Do you expect the second round to be equally successful in this sense?
Have measures been taken to improve the election process?
”
Mohammed Omar Daudzai: “ In the name of God, the first round of the elections was a great victory for all the people of Afghanistan and, particularly, for the Afghan forces who heroically provided security for the election.
It was also an international victory.
The election sent a message to the international community that 12 years of their efforts has not gone to waste.
The experience of the first round will help us, we hope, to hold the second round in a secure, good atmosphere.
”
euronews: “ There was talk about setting up new voting stations so that some of the problems of the first round wouldn’t happen again.
Has that been done?
”
Daudzai: “ Well, according to Afghanistan’s Election Commission, the number of sites remains the same but more voting booths have been provided.
The security arrangements will not be much different, but we will have more police officers manning the entrances of the voting stations to ensure security.
”
euronews: “ Can you tell us about any progress being made in training for the national police force?
”
Daudzai: “ In order to return to its main duty – which is to uncover and fight crime and focus on law enforcement – our police force needs training.
This is going very well in Afghanistan and abroad. ~~~ At home, we have one police academy.
We have police training centres in the provinces and we have a staff college.
In Kabul, we have the security command training centre, and soon we’ll open the first police academy for women, in Bamian province with help from Europol.
”
euronews: “ Concerning the recruiting of thousands of women police officers to help keep the elections safe, is there a clear vision and a public will to increase the presence of women or is this idea limited to the Interior Ministry?
”
Daudzai: “ One of my top priorities in the past eight months [since taking on this post] has been to increase the number of women in the ministry at various levels.
For example, for the first time, the commander of Kabul police District Number One is a woman.
In the same way, we have plans to increase the number of women at all the different levels of the ministry.
”
euronews: “ On the eastern border, where rocket attacks from Pakistan into Afghanistan continue, particularly in Konar province, the Afghan authorities have spoken out strongly against this.
What is going on?
”
Daudzai: “ Well, one reason for these attacks could be that the Trilateral Talks between Afghanistan, Pakistan and NATO will end this year.
The Pakistanis want to replace it with a bilateral process.
It is possible that the attacks are aimed at putting pressure on Afghanistan, to gain leverage at the negotiating table, but it is counterproductive.
We do not want any sort of tension.
We want to live in peace and reconciliation with our neighbours and we expect them to treat us with the same good will.
”
euronews: “ Why has Afghanistan delayed the signing of the security pact with the United States?
”
Daudzai: “ Because the United States could not put enough pressure on Pakistan to bring the leaders of the Taliban to the negotiation table.
So Afghanistan’s president said, ‘Well, okay, let the next president sign it’.
But as the election has come closer, both candidates have promised that if they become president, they will sign it in the first week of coming to office.
I am sure that the United States and the West and Europeans will not have to worry about this any more.
”
euronews: “ According to Wikileaks, US intelligence has been listening in on all the phone conversations of Afghan citizens.
The Afghan government has reacted negatively.
Have you had an official response from American officials?
”
Daudzai: “ The Americans will certainly have something to say about it, and will shed some light on it, but the people of Afghanistan were disappointed that all their phone conversations might have been monitored.
This is against the Afghan constitution.
”
euronews: “ There is international concern that three quarters of the world’s opium comes from Afghanistan.
What has been done to replace this commerce, which has become a global trade.
Is there any hope?
”
Daudzai: “ It is a major source of suffering for the people of Afghanistan that we are cultivator of the opium poppy.
Terrorism and opium feed off each other.
The profits enrich the Taliban.
This provides wealth for terrorism.
We believe that when peace comes to Afghanistan, this problem will also be solved — when nationwide and lasting peace prevails.
”
</text>
<text>
The French writer Marek Halter is an all-round intellectual and human rights activist.
From humble beginnings he escaped life in a Warsaw ghetto to settle in France with his family in 1950.
 ~~~ He has since climbed the social ladder and has more than a few friends in high places.
Though by his own account – they hear him but do not really listen.
He talks to euronews about democracy, the Middle East and talking Yiddish with Jean-Marie Lustiger.
Kirsten Ripper:
“ Some years ago you wrote the book ‘I woke up in anger’.
What makes you angry? ~~~ ”
Marek Halter:
“ Oh, there is no shortage of things that make me angry but you know, there is a difference between indignation and anger.
That’s why I do not agree with my friend Stéphane Hessel.
You can be indignant without doing anything but when you’re angry, you act.
“ We’re in France ahead of the presidential elections and nobody has put forward their vision of the world.
I would love for somebody on TV to say: ‘This is how I see the world in 10 years and this is how I see France in this world in 10 years.’
“ We have to learn to share in a different way.
We could start by putting the world’s banks under supervision.
Maybe we should shut down the financial markets?
There are other ways of earning money other than just earning it off the back of other people’s money.
We don’t need to do that.
Maybe we should build huge libraries to replace the stock markets? ~~~ ”
Kirsten Ripper:
“ Another bone of contention for you is the Middle East, where the situation hasn’t really improved in years. ~~~ ”
Marek Halter:
“ It will be solved, maybe even by the end of the year. ~~~ ”
Kirsten Ripper:
“ By the end of the year, the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians will be solved?
You’re very optimistic … ”
Marek Halter:
“ When you’re at the bottom of a well and you get your head up and finally, you can see the light.
Well, we don’t realise, we’re already enlightened. ~~~ ”
Kirsten Ripper:
“ Do you believe that the Palestinians can see the light? ~~~ ”
Marek Halter:
“ I think that today Israelis and Palestinians are almost at the bottom of the well, almost, maybe not completely and when they reach the bottom … that’s when they will see the light … ”
Kirsten Ripper:
“ And who are the peacemakers according to you? ~~~ ”
Marek Halter:
“ That’s a very good question because unfortunately that is what’s missing.
In the whole world, in particular the Middle East, we need figures.
“ And as for Afghanistan, it’s the end. ~~~ The West will stampede and they will flee like in Vietnam or in Burma.
But you don’t get democracy through the barrel of a gun. ~~~ ”
Kirsten Ripper:
“ You have founded two universities in Russia. ~~~ ”
Marek Halter:
“ To teach to young Russians what democracy is.
Andrei Sakharov told me one day that democracy is like an orange.
In Russian, it’s appelsin.
But a person who has never seen an orange, won’t ask for one.
So you have to explain to these young Russians, what an orange is and one day they will want an orange and that’s what happened.
It was my students who were the first to take to the streets.
Kirsten Ripper:
“ Have you talked to your friend Vladimir Putin about all the young people protesting? ~~~ ”
Marek Halter:
“ I’ve talked about it in public, I’ve said: ‘Vladimir Vladimirovich, my students are on the streets and if you were to say something to them, what would that be?’ He said: ‘but Marek Halter, I would tell them that if they can protest, it’s thanks to me’. ~~~ ”
Kirsten Ripper:
“ And you agree with him? ~~~ ”
Marek Halter:
“ In a certain way, yes.
It’s the first time in Russia, that hundreds of thousands of young people have demonstrated without any of them getting sent to Gulags. ~~~ ”
Kirsten Ripper:
“ But there are those who were sent to prison … ”
Marek Halter:
“ Ah, no … no … no … the demonstrations were essentially in St Petersburg.
There were neo-Nazis demonstrating as well but not one of my students was manhandled.
“ Putin has impressed me at certain points, there have been little things, sometimes and I have asked him: ‘Vladimir Vladimirovich, what do you know about the Jews’?
“ And he told me: ‘when I was a young child, we lived in a shared apartment in St Petersburg, with a Jewish family.
The father was called Salomon Abramovich – I think.
He answered: ‘the Talmud.’ Putin said: ‘you must excuse me, Marek’.
I said: ‘why’?
And he replied: ‘because it didn’t interest me’.
 ~~~ However he said it in a simple way, and there’s a kind of respect there for one another.
“ Do you think in two years time, Putin will ask my friend Michail Prokhovov to become Prime Minister? ~~~ ”
Kirsten Ripper:
“ Do you think Prokhorov is close to Putin? ~~~ ”
Marek Halter:
“ I don’t know but he represents liberal democracy … ”
Kirsten Ripper:
“ Do you trust Prokhorov? ~~~ ”
Marek Halter:
“ Do I trust him? ~~~ You know (laughing) I don’t even trust myself!
“ I have just written a book on Birobidjan. ~~~ It was a Jewish republic created by Stalin in 1932-34 and it still exists.
It’s the only place in the world where the official language is Yiddish.
It’s my mother tongue but nobody in the world speaks it anymore.
You know, this will make you smile, the last person I had a conversation with in Yiddish – and we did it every month when we had dinner together so we didn’t forget our parents language, was the Cardinal of Paris, Jean-Marie Lustiger. ~~~ ”
Kirsten Ripper:
“ He spoke Yiddish? ~~~ ”
Marek Halter:
“ He spoke Yiddish because his parents spoke Yiddish, like mine.
” ~~~ With lots of projects in the pipeline, Marek Halter is showing no signs of slowing.
The subject of his next book is Khadija, the prophet Mohammed’s first wife, remaining true to his literary tradition of championing strong women.
</text>
<text>
IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde has a number of pressing problems at the IMF/World Bank Spring Meeting in Washington.
The political instability surrounding Ukraine has the potential to damage the global economy and will be high on the agenda at the meeting of finance ministers and central bankers.
 ~~~ Weak and slow economic growth in the eurozone could also consign a generation of young people to a bleak future without work, money and influence. ~~~ 
Euronews correspondent Stefan Grobe spoke to Christine Lagarde ahead of the crucial meeting.
Stefan Grobe, euronews: “ Thank you for being with us today on the eve of the IMF Spring Meeting here in Washington, DC.
Let me start by asking you about the global context of this year’s talks.
We have unbalanced growth, massive unemployment, deflation risks, monetary tapering in progress, and all of a sudden we have political instability, not at some distant place in the world, but right on Europe’s doorstep.
Give us a sense of how all that will shape the discussions at the Spring Meeting?
Christine Lagarde: “ It’s a balance of positive and negative.
What I’m certain is that the media will find of lots of things to write about, and a trend will certainly be Ukraine which has been the centre of attention for the last few weeks and where our team has been on the ground focused on figuring out what the economy is about in Ukraine, what the numbers are, what the reserves are, who is doing what and negotiating with the authorities a programme that will help them restore the economic situation, re-establish the rule of law in many corners, and dealing with issues such as the monetary policy, the exchange rate of the country and the energy prices and lots of structural reforms that will have to take place.
euronews: “ In Europe, we see growing inequality and a high level of unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and you mention this in every speech.
What are you telling youngsters who are worried?
Is there hope that this ‘low growth trap’, as you have called it, will not slam shut? ~~~ ”
Lagarde: “ The ‘low growth trap’ is the risk in the medium term if the right policies are not decided on and if there is no international cooperation and if that was the case, those economies would not be creating the jobs that are needed for the young generation which is coming full of enthusiasm to the job market to find access and jobs.
So what we are saying is, the economy is turning the corner, but is moving too slowly, the growth is too weak, and it needs to be supported by the right mix of monetary policy, fiscal policies and, most importantly, because there is not that much space between these two categories, structural reforms – one of which being a better job market.
” ~~~ euronews: “ You just mentioned that the eurozone economy is growing only very, very slowly, and the IMF forecasts are just north of 1.0 percent for this year and next.
If we have a major international crisis on our hands with potentially unpredictable energy problems, can even the small growth rate be sustained?
In other words, is Vladimir Putin threatening the recovery in Europe?
Lagarde: “ Instability, uncertainty, geopolitical fragility do not facilitate that necessary recovery job that policymakers have on their hands.
But nothing comes without opportunities, you know.
And although what’s happening there is a challenge, it also requires that countries re-examine their energy policy mix and the established routines they are operating under.
It requires that Ukraine restores its economic policy, restores the rule of law, deals with governance, eliminates its corruption.
All of those are positive factors that could result from something which is full of uncertainty.
euronews: “ On Ukraine.
The financial support of the international community amounts to 27 billion dollars over the next two years, of which $14 billion to $18 billion will come from the IMF – if Ukraine can put in place a very ambitious programme of structural reforms.
How realistic is this given the massive level of corruption in that country and the continuing military threat from Russia?
Lagarde: “ The performance of the country will be a factor of the determination of its people and its authorities.
Without that ownership, that determination, things will not happen.
But if there is that collective drive to eliminate corruption, to establish good governance, to have good procurements, to have true prices for energy and to own their economic destiny, it will happen. ~~~ And the international community will support those countries.
euronews: “ Following the annexation of Crimea, global markets reacted only moderately, if at all.
Is it that global investors just don’t care about Ukraine?
And, if that is the case, who is paying the economic price for Russian aggression?
Lagarde: “ You know, there have been consequences to the Ukrainian situation, as you call it.
For instance, the currency has gone down by about 30 percent, so that was a market adjustment of significant nature.
It followed the decision by the central bank to no longer support a pegged currency, as it was.
Equally, there has been a significant outflow of capital from Russia to other parts of the world.
So investors actually recognise when it’s time to move. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
The German Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Ursula von der Leyen is considered a serious rival to Angela Merkel inside the conservative CDU.
Von der Leyen is well known for her progressive views on social issues, such as a quota for women in top jobs.
As the campaign gets underway for the September elections she is at pains to praise the legacy of the current government. ~~~ 
The mother of seven was born into a political family and practiced medicine before taking on her current post. ~~~ 
She spoke to euronews reporter Kirsten Ripper:
“ You are the Labour Minister of a country with a jobless rate that is so low that it is the envy of many in Europe. ~~~ Youth unemployment is currently at eight percent, the lowest in the EU.
Do you encourage young people from crisis hit countries to come to Germany? ~~~ ”
Ursula von der Leyen
German Minister of Labour and Social Affairs:
“ I recommend people in Europe look where the jobs are.
In the north of Europe, Germany, but also Austria and the Dutch have jobs on offer – one million in Germany, 33.000 apprenticeships are not filled at the moment.
And if in other parts of Europe young people are looking for jobs, this is my answer.
But it is not the only answer, we must take steps in southern Europe to promote growth, we must also use the freedom of movement within the European market, this is important we have fought for it for a long time.
This should be offered to young people. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ That takes the wind out of the sails of your critics who say that there is a brain drain away from the crisis hit countries? ~~~ “
Ursula von der Leyen:
“ I think that in a situation where six million young people in Europe are desperately looking for a job or training we should offer different answers to provide a perspective.
And if there are jobs going, it is good and right that they can learn the skills.
One day they will then return to their countries or go somewhere else inside Europe.
I prefer that these young people get a job in Europe so that they do not leave Europe and move to other continents. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ During the last few months, many articles have been published about poverty in Germany – also the poverty of people in work.
What do you think about a minimum wage and about improved social benefits? ~~~ ”
Ursula von der Leyen:
“ Concerning the minimum wage, we have 12 branches with a minimum wage and have a good experience with that.
Traditionally in Germany the social partner: unions and employers discuss all labour agreements – there are 65.000 currently in Germany.
They have the knowledge about the right balance for a minimum wage that is fair to workers , but does not destroy jobs. ~~~ ”
euronews:
The Hartz IV?
” ~~~ Ursula von der Leyen:
“ Hartz IV in Germany means that people who are jobless and in need are assured of a minimum income.
But the important step is to provide jobs so they can work and get out of Hartz IV, earn their own living, which is more and more possible in Germany thanks to the healthy economic situation.
The number of jobless is clearly going down.
That is why it would not be clever to raise Hartz IV because you take away the incentive to work, to earn your own living. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ You are engaged with women’s issues in Germany.
How do you see the future quota for women in top jobs? ~~~ ”
Ursula von der Leyen:
“ Now is the time where we say that women are not only a large part of the workforce, but more are needed especially at the top.
This is the meaning of “ quota for women ” in big firms.
We see that in Germany the medium-seized businesses already have 30 percent of women in leading positions, but in big businesses, there are very few women on the board of directors.
And that’s why we are having a discussion in Germany and this must go faster.
I think that industry understands best when you put in place timetables or a special framework.
I think by 2020, 30 per cent of boardroom places should be occupied by women.
We know from studies that businesses have better results when men and women are at the top – not because women are better, but because they react differently than men and have a broader view on the risks and also on opportunities.
This more modern line-up should be achieved in Germany. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ And a personal question that a female Spanish colleague has asked me to put to you … you have seven children and take care of your sick father how do you balance career and family? ~~~ ”
Ursula von der Leyen:
“ There were not seven children in the beginning, but this is a long way in my life with small children – firstly as a young doctor I had the experiences that many young couples have. ~~~ How difficult it is to find childcare, to arrange flexible working hours with your employers.
This is, according to me, is most important at the start.
The second component is that my husband as the father of the children has asked for the right to spend time with his children and I think that mothers should ask for the same right.
So I hope that one day it will not be just women who are asked how they manage to balance jobs and family, but young couples, that is fathers and mothers are given a frame in which they can realise this difficult task, the best that can be realised in Europe: say YES to children. ~~~ ”
euronews:
And what about the problem of the low birthrate in Germany:?
Ursula von der Leyen:
“ Compared with industrialised countries we see that in countries with well educated young people – thank God this is the case in Germany – more children are born when work and family are reconciled for fathers and mothers. ~~~ This gives confidence to have a second or third child.
Germany that comes from a long tradition where work and family are unreconciled but the changes of the last few years have been good.
We also see that the drop in birthrate has been stopped, but it takes a long time with demographically to achieve a turn-around. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ You are the strong woman beside the chancellor, a woman with a vision and resoluteness, as Nikolaus Blome has called Angela Merkel “ the artist of hesitation ” .
Would you be a better chancellor? ~~~ ”
Ursula von der Leyen:
“ No way, I think that every generation has its chancellor.
My generation is especially well represented: Angela Merkel she is the chancellor of this country.
Just Iook how excellent she is. ~~~ She has guided this country through difficult times – the current economic crises and now the euro crisis -, we can see we are lucky to have somebody at the top who is trustworthy and operates sustainable politics. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ And you do not have a problem to campaign intensively for the CDU? ~~~ ”
Ursula von der Leyen:
“ On the contrary. ~~~ This is my party.
I think there are ideas to be disputed and I do that in an engaged way.
euronews:
“ And you are fighting for the right of adoption for same-sex couples? ~~~ ”
Ursula von der Leyen:
“ We have a debate that will that will surely take place in autumn.
For the moment there are other priorities. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Europe must take action on immigration before it is too late.
That is the message that Salil Shetty, Secretary General of Amnesty International has been discussing with EU officials.
He spoke to euronews reporter Efi Koutsokosta.
euronews: “ Mr Shetty welcome to Euronews.
Let’s go to the Middle East. ~~~ Amnesty International said last week, and I quote, that “ the world’s response to the Syria crisis so far has been woefully inadequate ” .
Why would you say that?
Salil Shetty: “ Because we have 2.3 million refugees now, we have children who are dying of hunger, we have over nine million displaced in all six million internally displaced, 2.5 million or so refugees and we have known this problem and again Amnesty International repeatedly documented the crisis in Syria.
If we had taken action earlier, we wouldn’t have been to that situation today.
Even as we speak, we have and this is very relevant for our discussion in Europe, of the 2.5 million or so refugees, 97 percent of them have been resettled just in the neighbouring countries and these are relatively poor countries like Lebanon, Jordan.
Europe at the end of all this rhetoric around Syria I think all it’s been able to do is to pledge to take about 14,000 or so of people and of that, 11.000 have been taken by Germany alone as pledges.
So of 27 EU member countries, 28 EU member countries in all, 17 of them are taking zero. ~~~ 
euronews: “ That’s why you said that the European leaders should be ashamed? ~~~ ”
Salil Shetty: “ Absolutely, absolutely.
I think it’s a matter of great shame.
And you know, the net result if you don’t take systematic actions, as the UN special rapporteur for example has said that Europe can easily take 250,000 refugees a year for the next five years.
Now, if you don’t take action today the fact that Syrian refugees are going to keep coming in Europe.
That’s going to happen because Nicosia, which is the furthest point in Europe, is not that far from Damascus – a couple of hundred miles.
So, they will find their way here. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ We are coming to the debate opened within the EU after the Lampedusa tragedy.
Southern countries are complaining of having to shoulder an unfair burden as landing points for migrants seeking access to the EU.
On the other hand, the Germans, Dutch, Danish and others say that “ We are taking most of the asylum seekers coming to the EU in our countries ” .
So, what would you say, what should be done?
”
Salil Shetty: “ From an external global perspective, where I come from, in a sense the internal issues within Europe are important but if you look at it from a global perspective we look at Europe as a world leader on human rights, historically.
But what we have seen in the recent past is actually quite the reverse.
So, if you take the issue of how the migrants, asylum seekers are pushed back into the sea, thousands of people, as you know, have died at the last few years coming to the Mediterranean, let alone by the land route.
They are fleeing from prosecution and torture and coming to Europe.
They get pushed back often losing their lives, children and women and if they do arrive in these countries including Greece, Italy and places like that, they are often put into detention centres and treated in a really bad way.
The idea that Europe is taking its fair share, unfortunately is not true.
euronews: “ Do you think that Lampedusa was a wake up call for the EU? ~~~ ”
Salil Shetty: “ We thought so.
That is the unfortunate fact that this is a few months ago that happened and it really picked the conscience of European people and European leaders but if you look at what has actually happened in practice instead, apart from having meetings and rhetorical statements, not much has changed in practice.
That’s one reason that I’m here.
euronews: “ The EU after Lampedusa tragedy, has launched a European Surveillance border control, a system which has been strongly criticised by the Human Rights Organizations.
Don’t you think that a better border surveillance could eventually help rescue lives from the sea? ~~~ ”
Salil Shetty: “ Absolutely, I think if there are better search and rescue systems in place, if there are better ways of disembarking people of saving their lives and once they come ashore a better shared responsibility then all of this will help.
But it’s not a question of surveillance, it’s a question of how you protect the lives of people.
The life of a person in Syria or the Middle East is of equal value as a life of a European.
We can’t deny that.
Nobody is expecting Europe to open its borders indiscriminately.
It can be done in a systematic way.
There are international procedures of how asylum seekers have to be dealt with case by case.
But the reality is that many of the European countries simply put them in detention centres. ~~~ “
euronews: “ Let’s focus on the situation the Europe is in.
The anti-immigrant sentiments are rising across Europe and along with that there are many extreme right parties which are exploiting and really investing on these sentiments.
This factor complicates the situation, doesn’t it?
” ~~~ Salil Shetty: “ It does but it’s also used as an excuse.
You know the fact that there is economic stress, or there is austerity challenges and the growth of right wing parties but we can’t forget the fact the European Union was founded on core values of human rights, of fundamental freedoms, of respecting every individual human being, that’s what makes Europe unique.
So, we have to go back to our founding values.
The EU institutions are here to guard the law which Europe has.
So, if you take for example the race equality directive, that allows the EU institutions to take action against member states when they discriminate against Roma, discriminate against migrants. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Usually when we speak about human rights violations, humanitarian crises, people have mainly in mind Africa, the Middle East or Asia.
But during the last years there is another social crisis especially in countries such as Greece under austerity programmes.
Do you think that there is a degradation of human rights in favour of a fiscal consolidation? ~~~ ”
Salil Shetty: “ Unfortunately, there have been incidents of this nature and really again the EU should intervene in the situation, it’s well within their competence.
Austerity cannot be at the cost of human rights and this is a real genuine problem.
euronews: “ Do you have any specific suggestions to do about that in Europe?
” ~~~ Salil Shetty: “ What we normally recommend is that before austerity measures are put in place an essential prerequisite for governments is to look the human rights impact that these are going to have particularly on vulnerable populations.
So, for example if you are going to do something in relation to public housing if people are going to be forcibly evicted from public housing because of an austerity measure, I think that it’s absolutely essential that the European institutions and the member states take cognisance of this beforehand and not after the event.
euronews: “ Mr Shetty what do you think is your impact as Amnesty International on decision-making?
Are the political leaders take your suggestions into consideration? ~~~ ”
Salil Shetty: “ Do they listen?
Are they influenced by opinions?
I believe they are but the important thing for us is that human rights is a universal set of rights and we don’t talk based on whether somebody is listening or not.
It’s very important for us to shine the light, to speak truth to power and I think over time truth and justice will prevail.
euronews: “ Are you optimistic for the future? ~~~ ”
Salil Shetty: “ Always optimistic.
That’s the nature of my work. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
At the 65th Cannes Festival, Iranian film director Asghar Farhadi was, once again, the centre of attention, this time for his next film project.
The European Commission has selected Farhadi’s next movie for its 60,000 euro ‘Prix MEDIA’ award.
The film is due to be set in Paris with European casting. ~~~  
Earlier this year, Farhadi’s ‘Separation’ won two Oscar nominations and took the award for Best Foreign Language film, the first Iranian movie to win the honour. ~~~  
In an interview with euronews in Cannes, Asghar Farhadi talks about his next project, the reaction in Iran, his cinematic style and the current restraints on Iranian film-makers.
  ~~~ euronews: “ You’ve just won the “ Prix MEDIA ” a European award which recognises cultural diversity, what does this award mean for you as an Iranian Film maker?
”
  ~~~ Asghar Farhadi: “ The meaning it has for me is the same as all the encouragement I have received through these years.
The other meaning is that I’m a writer who has always composed in the Persian language and whose dialogues have always been in the Persian language. ~~~ Now some of the cast will be speaking another language.
Finally, it means that those who have read the script for my next film have been able to connect with it and did not find it an unfamiliar story despite not knowing Persian, and that means a lot to me.
”
  ~~~ euronews: “ You won many international awards for your last movie ‘A Separation’ amongst them an Oscar for best foreign language movie – but apparently when you returned to Iran, the official welcome dinner organised by the State of Iran was cancelled; what happened?
”
  ~~~ Asghar Farhadi: “ My cinema friends and colleagues were going to hold a ceremony, a very sincere and simple ceremony.
Well, they faced problems and they could not hold it properly and they were still trying to hold the ceremony one way or another.
I did not want them to have more problems and I asked them not to continue.
The ceremony was not going to be held by the House of Cinema, (House of Cinema is Iran’s biggest syndicate for cinema actors/actresses/film-makers but was closed earlier this year by the authorities), but by friends who were mostly members of the House of Cinema.
 ~~~   ~~~ “ What they were doing meant a lot to me although they could not do it the way they wanted to.
I could never find out why the ceremony was cancelled.
However, despite everything, it was very valuable for me.
All this time, I have got so much support from the people of my country and I have been blessed with their kindness and this support is a great asset for me and very valuable.
”
euronews: “ In your movies you have a certain style which reminds me of Chekhov, Ibsen and Kieslowski – certainly in your last movie ‘A Separation’ you have a style I would call neo-realistic; what for you is the task of this realistic style?
”
  ~~~ Asghar Farhadi: “ It might have been the books I read when I was a teenager.
The stories I read at that time were very close to reality; not just a mere portrayal of reality but a selection of a layer of reality which, within itself, contained much more complicated layers of reality.
Reading those stories as a younger adult has unconsciously created a certain taste which showed itself when I started writing movie scripts and plays.
”
euronews: “ An artist - and I consider you as a filmmaker and screenwriter as an artist - you must have a certain freedom of artistic expression.
Where is the borderline for you between artistic expression and freedom, and state censorship?
”
  ~~~ Asghar Farhadi: “ For someone like me and of my generation who was born and has grown up with these restrictions be they at home, at school, on the street, or at university; sometimes this borderline between being restricted and not being restricted is blurred.
Not in the same sense that I sometimes hear: ‘Restrictions lead to creativity’.
This is wrong to say.
Perhaps in the short run, restrictions can bring about creativity but, in the long term, it destroys it.
Therefore, if there were no restrictions for Iranian film-makers, we would have seen more creativity from them.
”
  ~~~ euronews: “ There are a lot of Iranian film directors who cannot work the way they wish in Iran.
Some Western journalists call this a problem of censorship.
How would you explain the problem?
 
Asghar Farhadi: “ The problem is not a very clear and transparent problem that I can define for you.
Perhaps if we summarise it in one word, it is the same as you say, censorship and restriction.
This is not just from the system, not just from the authority and the ruling system. ~~~  
“ Some of this censorship is within the artist or the film-maker without them being aware of it, and this is more dangerous, because if there are restrictions on the outside, you can see them, you can get it, you can recognise it, experience it and find a way for going through it. ~~~  
“ But when it is within your own mind, you will not be able to find it.
It is like someone who is ill but does not know about his illness and feels that he is healthy.
This is dangerous.
”
  ~~~ euronews: “ The House of Cinema, an important body supporting artists and filmmakers in Iran was closed a few month ago – it shocked a lot of filmmakers, actors and actresses – how do you feel about this?
”
  ~~~ Asghar Farhadi: “ I have some good news.
I learnt that through their efforts, all those who were active in and all the members of House of Cinema, have managed to get it re-opened soon.
I am not sure yet, I have heard this as news. ~~~  
“ My feeling when the House of Cinema was closed was a very bad feeling.
Neither I nor any other of my colleagues could find out why such an establishment should be shut. ~~~ 
  ~~~ “ Reasons were given but none of them were acceptable to me.
I thought those were not the real reasons and something else has made them close the House of Cinema.
But I am happy that finally, due to the efforts of the cinema people, this incident was not forgotten, unlike many other events that are forgotten in the course of time.
”
</text>
<text>
Tunisian Prime Minister (head of government) Mehdi Jomaa has been in Germany and Brussels on a mission to underscore his country’s need for continuing support in a time of hard transition, notably inviting European investors and tourism to return.
Euronews reporter Charles Salamé spoke to him: “ You’re in Brussels while the President of the Tunisian Republic is conducting a tour of Africa and the president of the constitutional assembly is in France.
All the people in charge of Tunisia are abroad.
Why such movement?
” ~~~ Tunisian Prime Minister Mehdi Jomaa: “ Simply because we are at a stage where we have to let people know what is happening in Tunisia.
It’s been a difficult time, and it’s vital to present this very dynamic image of Tunisia — of a new Tunisia, a Tunisia that is stabilising and that can once more welcome investors and visitors.
It’s to present our point of view and explain what’s happening in the region.
euronews: “ You’ve met Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Is it true you’ve asked for Germany’s help to protect your border against terrorist attacks or terrorist infiltration from Libya?
” ~~~ Jomaa: “ Germany has important know-how in border control.
In Tunisia today, we need to reinforce this, and Germany is one of the partners we’re in talks with.
It’s not the only thing we’re discussing.
” ~~~ euronews: “ It’s about logistical reinforcement?
” ~~~ Jomaa: “ It’s about technical reinforcement.
We’re talking about equipment, technical support and know-how — the way we’re used to working.
We have the resources that can be adapted to all techniques.
That’s how we want to work with Germany.
But we’re also working with other friendly countries.
” ~~~ euronews: “ You’re afraid of extremist influence spilling over into Tunisia from Libya? ~~~ ”
Jomaa: “ In Tunisia today I’d give the image of clearing up the inside of a house.
We’re making progress but sometimes it’s difficult.
We’re on the right track.
I also use the image of a house where the neighbour’s home is catching fire.
We have to protect our house from that spreading, and we are under an obligation to plan towards helping our Libyan brothers put out their fire.
It’s not about fear.
It’s being rational: admitting there are problems.
There are tense households next door.
We must protect ourselves effectively, take measures to guard against the danger. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Talking about fire … not only Libya is on fire.
You’ve also got fire somewhat further away from you.
Iraq and Syria are on fire.
From the outset, there was a clear rise in extremists from Tunisia travelling to Syria.
What’s happening with that now?
Have you been able to stop that sort of jihadism?
” ~~~ Jomaa: “ I think we really have made a great effort for many months in order to stop that flow.
We have been successful in reducing most of it but there are still Tunisian fighters in Syria, just as there are other nationalities.
We realise the extent of the damage today because of all the nationalities there are in the field.
We are collaborating with our neighbours and friendly countries concerned by this question, to try to deal with this scourge and protect ourselves.
So I’ll zero in on tense households next door: this is where it’s important to support the Tunisian experiment and give it viable alternatives for the young people there.
It’s most important that Tunisia be successful in its efforts.
euronews: “ You have decided to open an administrative office for Tunisians in Syria, but why not an embassy?
” ~~~ Jomaa: “ We do things in order of need, I think.
The most important thing today is to try to bring support to our people who are living in Syria.
It’s an obligation a state has.
I think that’s the priority today. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ But those Tunisians aren’t living in areas that are controlled by the Syrian state.
” ~~~ Jomaa: “ They’re living all over the place.
These people in Syria are asking for services and we have a duty and an obligation to provide that support.
This kind of service should be provided by all countries for their citizens.
” ~~~ euronews: “ What’s your analysis of Iraq now, as an Arab country? ~~~ ”
Jomaa: “ I don’t think there’s a difference.
We agree it’s critical.
It’s even dangerous.
I think we have always wished for Iraq, which is a great nation in Arab history, we have wished for Iraq to become stable.
It isn’t today.
It’s complex.
We all have to contribute today, each in his own way, to stabilise Iraq.
As we see everywhere, we really hope for peace and stability in this dear brother country, Iraq.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Let’s talk about tourism in Tunisia. ~~~ ”
Jomaa: “ I will say that, in spite of the revolution, in spite of the image that was given off of a certain tension: not a single tourist was even touched, even at the height of the crisis.
Today, I can assure you that life in the streets of Tunis is normal.
The weather is getting better and better, and we’re starting to enjoy it a bit more — the sweetness of life in Tunisia.
We’re doing what’s necessary to bring back tourists.
I think we understand their wait and see attitude.
But it’s time to come back to Tunisia now.
Tunisia is ready for them, and they’ll find all the pleasures they’ve always been able to enjoy.
It’s a question of image, so this tour of European countries — one of its dimensions — is to spread this reassuring message and to invite our dear European friends to come back in a big way. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ The last question is about Tunisia’s upcoming presidential and parliamentary elections.
There are requests that a president be elected by consensus.
Do you share that opinion? ~~~ ”
Jomaa: “ I have an important role, and that is to offer the elements and the conditions so that the elections unfold in the best possible way.
The political parties’ role is to find ways that will suit them in the form of a coalition, an agreement for finding the president they consider will represent the Tunisian people the best, bringing about a consensus.
So, I’d keep my distance on this question, and will stick to procedure strictly, to accomplish my mission and my role without interfering in questions that do not directly concern me. ~~~ ”
euronews: Mr Prime Minister Mehdi Jomaa, aren’t you one of the candidates for the Tunisian Republic’s presidency?
Jomaa: “ No, I’m not a candidate.
I’ve decided to make a success of the last stage of the democratic process and I’m concentrating on that, and I hope, with everyone’s help, to succeed in that mission.
That’s the most important thing for me. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
The Reverend Jesse Jackson was a trailblazer for a black politicians like Barack Obama and a symbol of the political power – or sometimes powerlessness – of the African-American community for decades.
A civil rights icon for the left and a dangerous radical for the right, Jackson, a close confidant of Martin Luther King, became the voice of millions of blacks who felt disenfranchised, discriminated and devalued.
 ~~~ In 1984 and 1988 he launched presidential campaigns, but had little chance of getting the Democratic nominations.
After that, he stepped back from the political frontline, but remained an outspoken liberal activist, leading the Chicago-based Rainbow Push Coalition. ~~~ 
On the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington, Jackson spoke with euronews in the US capital about his memories of August 28, 1963, race relations today in the US and the future of black political power after Obama.
Also read- Why the ‘I have a dream’ speech is so hard to find online
euronews: “ Reverend Jackson, thank you so much for being with us today.
Let me start by asking you a personal question.
What are your memories of that August 28, 1963?
How do you remember that day? ~~~ ”
Jackson: “ I remember coming here in ’63, I just left jail in Greensboro, North Carolina..
And there was anxiety and fear and hope.
The anxiety was, will we make it to Washington and back.
The fear was, if you drove a car across state lines with a different tag, something could happen to you.
Medgar Evers had been killed on June 12 and the stain of his blood was all in the air.
[Washington] DC was under virtual lockdown.
The government was saying there could be a riot and at that time the mayor of DC was appointed [not elected].
 ~~~ “ They closed all liquor stores for the first time since Prohibition.
All police worked 18 hour shifts.
They mobilised the military in the five surrounding military bases.
This place was under lockdown.
And yet in spite of that, out of that sprouts this beautiful flower of people: black and white, standing together, singing together, being inspired together, and our will to freedom and dignity was greater than the resistance to our getting our freedom and dignity.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Fifty years on, what is the state of the American dream that Dr. ~~~ King had talked about?
” ~~~ Also read- Martin Luther’s Dream unfulfilled?
Jackson: “ The dream was never static.
The dream in ’64 was the end of humiliation.
I mean, black soldiers had to sit behind Nazi POWs, prisoners of war. ~~~ The dream was to end the indignity.
 ~~~ “ The dream of next year was for legislation to make that illegal.
The dream of next year was for the right to vote.
The next year the dream was for open housing.
The dream was a poor peoples’ campaign, it was to end the war in Vietnam.
Now we are free, but we are not equal.
And social separation has virtually ended as a matter of law, but the disparities have gotten wider. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ How are race relations today in the United States?
We do have this controversial debate over voter ID laws, we have seen the Trayvon Martin tragedy, we have this debate over stop-and-frisk and racial profiling in New York City – is there a danger that America is turning back the clock?
” ~~~ Jackson: “ In many ways.
Trayvon Martin was killed, an innocent.
One hundred and thirty six blacks were killed last year by some sheriff, or some deputy, or some vigilante, 136, not just one!
There are two and a half million Americans in prison, over 54 percent are African-American.
We see prison labour on the increase, we see prison telephone bills costing 1.5 billion dollars a year, we see companies on the stock exchange owning prisons as an industry, we see pre-trial detention, people in jail for up to five years waiting for trial, worse than Guantanamo.
 ~~~ “ So there is an ugliness undercutting our beauty.
And there is a real mixed feeling in the country tonight, frankly.
On the high note, President Barack [Obama] wins, he is the crown jewel of our success of 55 years of struggle.
On the other hand, he is under attack, called non-Christian, non-American, all this ugliness, kind of vile, that is challenging the beauty of this moment.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Many people say that race relations are fine because there is a black president in the White House.
Was Obama’s victory a sign of political normalcy or just an accident of history? ~~~ ”
Jackson: “ Well, it’s a historic accomplishment, to be sure, because the combination of forces for the good came together and went beyond.
Other Americans said the race is about race first and chose someone who has superior qualifications and was able to articulate those. ~~~ 
“ The vote made us feel good about ourselves.
But there was another element that felt very threatened and they should not have.
The south should not feel threatened by our progress.
Civil rights have made the new south prosper.
I mean, you could not have had the investment of Honda, Mitsubishi, Toyota, all of them have invested in the south, the new professional athletics teams in the south, the Olympics in the south – the new south has been born again because of the civil rights laws.
And so the irony is those who would benefit the most become oftentimes the most mean or the most frightened. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Looking beyond Obama, has the African-American community become more powerful?
Do you see more Obamas in the future? ~~~ ”
Jackson: “ Well, you will see more women, more people of colour who dare dream of running, and they may very well run.
When I was running back in ’88, President Barack was a student, and he saw the debate, and he said to me and he said to himself, this can be done. ~~~ 
“ So the seeds you plant, you never know when they are going to sprout, when they are going to grow.
There are qualified women, Latinos and blacks, there is no shortage of people qualified to be president of the United States.
And I think that there is a whole body of people that can at least dream it.
If you dream it, you can make it happen. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ And finally, what is your biggest concern today?
” ~~~ Jackson: “ Well, I’m perplexed by our proclivity for war, the extreme concentration of wealth, the loss of the middle class because of our trade imbalances and the growth of poverty.
The poverty growth in our country now is reaching very dangerous proportions.
Too much war, too much hate, too much poverty, we in fact must dream, live above our present predicament and change our priorities. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
As President of the UCI, (Union Cycliste Internationale) cycling’s governing body Pat McQuaid has been in charge of the sport during its darkest days.
The loquacious Irishman must lead cycling into a new era when all suspicion of cheating in racing is removed.
He has his critics and there are those who want him out.
At the UCI headquarters in Aigle, Switzerland he reflected with euronews on the damage the name, Lance Armstrong has done to the sport.
Pat McQuaid: “ Whether it will haunt the sport remains to be seen and certainly it is two words we are having to deal with a lot now over the past couple of months indeed years and you know we have read a lot, we have heard a lot, we have listened a lot.
We have listened to a lot of fans and because of everything that has happened we have taken decisive action.
‘We have set in place an independent commission, completely independent to study what the UCI did during that Lance Armstrong period to see what mistakes it made, if it made any and to report back to the UCI.
‘And then in addition to that looking to the future, they deal with the past.
Looking to the future we have set up a stakeholder consultation process which is already ongoing with all of our stakeholders and I have no doubt it will produce a very positive result as well.
‘The point is most people expect, you know, in any form of society there is cheating, there is cheating in religion, there is cheating in business, there is cheating in politics and so there is cheating in sports.
And the UCI suffers from doping as cheating and it is something which we are out to eradicate, you know we are constantly working to do that.
Paul McDowell, euronews: “ You want globalisation of the sport, in fact at one stage you wanted to cut back on the number of days on two of the biggest races in Europe, the Giro d’Italia and the Vuelta so you could spread the message further.
There is more money, there is more sponsors there is people grabbing at it – ideal for cheating to get a slice of that cake.
” ~~~ Pat McQuaid: “ Well obviously wherever you have a lot of money, in all sport and many activities where you have a lot of money you will have cheating.
It is our job to control the cheating and to monitor and control it and that is what we have been doing and in recent years with the new measures we have brought in – biological passport – we are the first to set up a blood bank which created the biological passport, we brought that in.
We brought in the no needles policy within the sport, no needles are allowed within the teams.
We brought in a rule whereby from 2011 onwards no athlete who has been convicted of doping can never come back into the sport’s entourage.
euronews: “ Does it still go on?
Pat McQuaid: “ I can’t say it does and I can’t say it doesn’t, but what I can say – there is a lot less than during the Lance Armstrong period and that the activities that he and his team which we read were doing would not be possible today.
euronews “ It’s believed within the sport, allegedly a blind-eye was always turned.
Pat McQuaid: “ The independent commission will show if a blind eye was turned or not and I have no doubt a blind eye was not turned it’s just that science was not able to detect it.
It was not just the UCI which tested Armstrong and his team-mates is was also WADA, It was also, USADA it was also the AFLD in France, it was also CONI in Italy all of them tested them as well and he was negative and his team-mates were negative so the system wasn’t strong enough and the system let us down in effect.
‘We do have a strategy to get rid of doping but changing a culture is not something you can determine because you are changing a whole load of aspects from the cyclists and right through their entourage and also the rule for instance I brought in you know last year to not allow any athlete to come back into the entourage it couldn’t be done retroactively so it could only be brought in from last year.
In time that will weed out potential guys coming back into the sport, guys who have been involved in doping.
euronews: “ The whole focus of the Lance Armstrong business has sharpened on the UCI and your presidency as well.
Has it damaged you below the water line? ~~~ ”
Pat McQuaid: “ No I don’t think so.
euronews: “ But you are the man surely who has to decide whether you will resign or not whether you will go not people from behind you, your power base.
” ~~~ Pat McQuaid: “ Certainly, absolutely I will decide if and when I do go but as I always say when I came in in 2005 as president I had two objectives, globalisation of the sport and getting rid completely of doping in the sport.
I haven’t achieved either of the yet but I do intend achieving them so I will stay until they are achieved.
” ~~~ euronews: “ There are plenty who want to see you out as you well know, names like Greg LeMond, etc but you are determined to stand for a third term?
Pat McQuaid: “ I am determined to stand.
I mean look at Greg LeMond what has Greg LeMond done for sport in the last 25 years, nothing – he has been stood outside criticising it.
I read even recently that Paul Kimmage stated in an interview that this group of his, this CCN (Change Cycling Now) group put Greg Le Mond’s name up as a PR stunt, I mean this is not the time for PR stunts this is the time for action and for working together not trying to divide people and so forth and they went on to say that Greg – you know to try and put someone up as an interim president it’s arrogant to the extreme. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Pat if you go back to when you were road racing put that head on for a minute how would you feel if all that was going on in your sport from that perspective and not from the presidency.
Pat McQuaid: “ I would be very, very annoyed, very angry and I would be very angry with the people involved in it and the people who caused it as I am anyway.
euronews: “ The foundation are guys that go out on the weekend in the peleton for fresh air, good sport.
I mean how do you look them in the eye?
Pat McQuaid: “ Well I mean the foundation is but don’t make any mistake about it don’t be anyway naive about it guys that go out at the weekend as amateurs also nowadays can take doping products too for whatever reason they do, so I think the sport is the sport and I think professionals love the sport equally as much as amateurs do.
euronews: “ Is it happening in the amateur sport?
Pat McQuaid: “ Well, it’s – I mean there have been amateurs caught doping, yes.
There have been juniors caught and we have caught juniors and under 23s and so forth have been caught.
I mean there are different reasons why people take doping there would be under 23s who take doping products to get themselves a contract to turn professional so those type of cheating possibilities are there all along the line.
It’s not just a question of prevention it’s not just a question of testing and so forth, education and creating the right environment at the outset is more important and that is what the UCI is heavily involved in, in education programmes and as are national federations, but I mean you know cheats come at any age. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ If amateurs can take it then what hope have you got to …
Pat McQuaid: “ Well that’s, and again that’s part of the stakeholder consultation will deal with that because a lot of the time you may be correct that the national federations say well doping only happens at professional level so that’s the UCI’s problem we don’t have to involve ourselves and within this consultation there will be discussions about that.
euronews: “ Just looking back over the last four years there have been legal consultations, there have been court proceedings there has been defamation of characters there is a whole list.
Can that stop, can you in another term bring the factions together?
Pat McQuaid: “ I would certainly hope it can and I hope it will certainly stop.
People need to understand that the UCI is there, the UCI may have its faults but the only way this sport is going to go forward is for the stakeholders and the UCI working together to bring it forward.
You are not going to replace the UCI with something else and some of these people are making suggestions which are far from reality so the best way forward is for everybody to work together with the UCI.
You know criticise it for its faults, praise it when it needs praised, help it when it needs help but that way the sport can move forward if everybody is working together and I think that’s what we are in the process of realising at the moment.
</text>
<text>
Gülsüm Alan, euronews:
“We are joined by Turkish EU affairs minister.
Egemen Bağış, welcome to Euronews.
“In Brussels, you spoke with the Turkey rapporteur, and with the President of the European Parliament, but with the EU in economic crisis and the eurozone in a critical situation.
Why does Turkey still want to be part of the European Union?”
Egemen Bağış EU affairs minister:
“Turkey’s position is not driven by economic interests, we never saw the EU in this way.
For us, Europe is the most extensive project for peace in all of human history.
When we look at the member countries of the European Union, we find that peoples who have waged war for centuries now live in peace within the EU.
 ~~~ “For this peaceful project to become more worldwide Turkey should be integrated into it.
Due to its geographical location, Turkey serves as a bridge between countries, and can give this project an international dimension.
 ~~~ “Despite the economic difficulties experienced by the EU, we must not forget that the EU still has the highest wealth per capita.
Therefore the EU model is one of the best to apply when thinking of our own hopes for the future.”
Gülsüm Alan, euronews:
“Turkey plays an important role in the region.
Isn’t it going to turn towards other horizons?”
Egemen Bağış EU affairs minister:
“As always, Turkey continues to be a bridge between East and West, between Islam and Christianity.
In terms of energy resources it also serves as a bridge and manages supply and demand.
This bridge, which extends from north to south, and east to west gets stronger every day.
This shouldn’t be a source of disagreement.”
Gülsüm Alan, euronews:
“How does Turkey intend to help the EU out of economic crisis?”
Egemen Bağış EU affairs minister:
“As Turkey has also gone through very difficult times, we can say that the EU will emerge from this crisis even more stable and fortified.
Not so long ago, there was a period of 12-13 years in which Turkey saw interest rates raise by 8000 percent in a single night.
“The first thing that the EU should do is take away the visa that applies to Turkish citizens. ~~~ It’s unfair, illogical, and illegitimate.
Turks should be able to travel freely in EU member countries.
“This would mean more tourists and therefore more money spent. ~~~ They’ll do business.
Turkish citizens now have the opportunity to travel without visas in 65 countries.
We are part of the customs union, 50 percent of our foreign trade is with the EU, 60 percent of tourists visiting Turkey come from the EU.
Despite all this, it is unfortunate that we can not we travel freely in EU countries.
“The world of business has grown significantly.
Turkey is currently the sixth largest economy in Europe.
Figures from the OECD predict that by 2050 Turkey will be the second largest economy, and until 2020 Turkey will continue to have the strongest economic growth in Europe.
 ~~~ “To build walls and close doors to such potential does not make sense.
We must stop thinking that the Turks will emigrate to Europe, because in recent years we’ve seen that more Europeans are moving to Turkey than vice versa.”
Gülsüm Alan, euronews:
“Switzerland has opened an investigation into what you said about the law on the denial of genocide, and France is making similar moves.
Does the fact that it could spread throughout the EU worry you?”
Egemen Bağış EU affairs minister:
“Among the most important principles of the EU is free speech.
The fact that some EU members have to pass a series of laws that restrict freedom of speech is illogical, this is contrary to the principles of the EU constitution that the members have adopted.
“I said in Zurich, I repeat here, and I will repeat elsewhere, that with our information, according to our records and our sources, it makes no sense … it’s illogical to call the 1915 events a genocide.
“We challenge Armenia and other countries to open their archives.
That we create an independent commission in which we find Armenian historians, Russian, Turkish, European and American historians.
 ~~~ “That all these countries open their archives so that we can analyse what really happened in 1915.
Thereafter we can assess the situation.
This is an execution without trial. ~~~ Calling the 1915 events a genocide based solely on information we have right now, comes from a lobby that nurtures malicious hatred.
Gülsüm Alan, euronews:
“Could this be spread throughout the EU?”
Egemen Bağış EU affairs minister:
“This is against the principles of the EU.
For this to be possible, all 27 EU members should take a unanimous decision.
It’s unlikely that all 27 EU countries decide this at the same time.”
Gülsüm Alan, euronews:
“The AK party who are in power, seem tired of making reforms.
Why are they not as dynamic as they once were?”
Egemen Bağış EU affairs minister:
“The AK party is not tired of making reforms.
The AK party is historically the government which has made ​​the most reforms.
Just look what we have done recently, for the first time in 88 years the celebration of Mass in the Orthodox Monastery of Sümela became possible. ~~~ 
“After 112 years our Armenian citizens began celebrating Mass in their Akdamar, recently in Turkey relations between civilians and the military and the Supreme Military Council were reformed.
All this shows how we are more than ever determined to pursue reforms”
Gülsüm Alan, euronews:
“The EU has high expectations for the Turkey’s new constitution.
What do you plan to do?”
Egemen Bağış EU affairs minister:
“We are creating a commission with an equal number of representatives that reflects the four parties represented in parliament.
Right now it is this committee which is responsible for the new constitution.
NGOs, academics and journalists also support the work of the commission.
 ~~~ “We’ve also created a website so that citizens can make proposals.
Different religious groups also support this initiative.
Once all this information is collected the commission will prepare a civil constitution which I hope will unite all citizens. ~~~ 
“A constitution that will be approved by all political parties, a constitution that every citizen will agree with.
This will enable Turkey to advance in the process of EU accession.”
Gülsüm Alan, euronews:
“In Syria, as the repression of civilians intensifies.
What does Turkey intend to do to stop these massacres?”
Egemen Bağış EU affairs minister:
“Today at a press conference the President of the European Parliament himself said that Turkey is the country that made ​​the most courageous statements on this issue.
We would also like to see European countries adopt a firmer stance.
 ~~~ “On one night alone 300 people were killed.
The entire international community must tell them to stop.
The international community should exert greater pressure on China and Russia who are permanent members of the Security Council of the United Nations. ~~~ 
“Tens of thousands of people have already been welcomed into Turkey.
All our resources have been deployed … Concerning our plans for the future, I’m not ready to share that on camera, I’ll save it for diplomacy behind the scenes.”
</text>
<text>
A busy trading room is the very heart of the Luxembourg based headquarters of the European Stability Mechanism, one of the newest organisations on the European continent.
 ~~~ There men and women are working hard to maintain the eurozone alive, raising billions on the international markets in order to help countries in the monetary union that are in deep trouble. ~~~ 
Euronews’ Hans von der Brelie met with the Managing Director, Klaus Regling, who is the mastermind behind the battle against speculators hitting the panic button.
He is convinced that most European crisis countries will be back in the markets very soon.
Euronews: Mr. ~~~ Regling, my first question comes from my Greek colleagues based in Athens: they want to know, why the European Stability Mechanism is not directly re-capitalising Greek banks?
Klaus Regling: Out of the overall Greek programme, 50 billion euro has gone via the Greek government to the Greek banks and that has restructured and recapitalized the four largest Greek banks.
What you are maybe alluding to and what we are not able to do this year is direct bank re-capitalisation, which maybe we will be allowed to do next year.
This instrument might be created once the European Central Bank acts as a common supervisor in the euro-area, then this possibility might exist.
At the moment we have to do it indirectly, money goes to the government, earmarked for the banks, that has happened.
Euronews: The International Monetary Fund is saying that another bail-out is needed for Greece.
Klaus Regling: Well, this is under discussion, but it is not so clear.
At the moment we have the programme running and it runs until the middle of 2014.
It is fully financed assuming that Greece meets all the conditions, then we will continue to disburse, just like the International Monetary Fund, and there is a commitment from the euro-area that, if Greece continues to implement reforms and if there is additional financing needed after the end of the current programme, in the middle of next year then additional assistance will be provided.
It is far too early to say in which form this will take place.
Euronews: You have a certain amount of money available in the European Stability Mechanism.
I saw quite a nice picture behind me, showing and proving that you have “ real muscles to help ” .
But, is that picture true?
Have you not under-financed yourself?
Klaus Regling: The point is that the EFSF (European Financial Stability Facility) and now the ESM (European Stability Mechanism) have been very successful in the market, we have raised about 140 billion euros over the past 2 and a half years, starting from zero, very successfully.
Overall, the EFSF and ESM together have a lending capacity of 700 billion euro.
Ninety percent of the ESM lending capacity is uncommitted, unused and available if it is needed.
This is also reassuring for markets, where a lot of firepower is left.
Euronews: There is a lot of firepower left but is there enough to take on Italy if a worst case scenario takes place?
Klaus Regling: The firepower is indeed enough also to finance a large country if there is a need.
We have seen many predictions from people over the last two and a half years, many have predicted the end of the euro.
Luckily not everybody who paints such a horror picture has been right, most have been wrong and we are seeing successes in our member states.
The adjustment programmes are working in Ireland, Portugal and Greece.
There is good progress, they are reducing their fiscal deficits, they are improving their competitiveness, so we are seeing success stories.
Euronews: You have mentioned Ireland.
Is it really a success story?
Klaus Regling: Ireland, first and foremost, is a real success story.
Interest rates are below four percent for ten year government bonds.
That’s a real success because they were above ten percent two years ago and Ireland has already been able to go back to the market and is issuing ten year government bonds.
Euronews: Ireland is a success-story.
Let’s move to Portugal: where the temperature is rising in the political system and because of the political system also in the financial system: Have a look at the interest rates, which have been shooting up.
The huge rise in interest rates in Portugal was some weeks ago and there is still a systemic risk and instability in Portugal.
Nevertheless the Portuguese government followed every single recommendation by you and the troika: so, whats going wrong?
Klaus Regling: Well, Portugal is making good progress.
when we look at the early indicators: competitiveness, export performance, the current account deficit has disappeared in Portugal.
At the same time it’s painful for the population.
GDP is dropping, so real economic activity is falling, unemployment keeps rising, this leads to political instability and when two ministers of the government resigned, there was a political crisis.
But Portugal is back on track: the coalition has agreed to stay together.
Euronews: Are you in discussion with Spanish authorities about a stand-by credit line?
Klaus Regling: From everything I know, and this has been confirmed by the Spanish authorities, they will not request more money for the Spanish banks and I have not seen any indications that they want another kind of programme.
I don’t think its needed.
Euronews: What will happen in the future, when a bank breaks down.
Who has to pay?
Klaus Regling: Public money and European taxpayers money will be used less than in the past.
Bank creditors will be involved more and in a more systematic manner, including junior debt holders, if necessary also depositors above the 100 000 euro limit.
There are certain rules on that, but the details are still under consideration with the European Parliament.
Euronews: Barroso, the president of the European Commission, said that the worst of the crisis is over.
We have serious concerns about Portugal, Cyprus, Greece, Slovenia and maybe other countries.
Who’s right and who’s wrong?
Klaus Regling: Half or even two thirds has been done.
I can see that we are getting to the end of this operation because the countries that are doing their homework will be able to go back to the market.
We have come a long way.
Euronews: Finally, why have you picked the painting you have hanging on your wall?
Klaus Regling: On the one hand, the colours are nice in the painting.
It goes well in the office, which otherwise would be mainly white or grey, but it also symbolises market behaviour: herd behaviour.
Everybody is moving in the same direction, sometimes excessively, and its part of our role here to be aware of that and if possible even to control the behaviour of a herd.
Euronews: So you’re the man stopping those beasts?
Klaus Regling: Well, it might be difficult and dangerous but you have to be aware.
Euronews: Good luck!
Thank you!
</text>
<text>
Christine Lagarde, the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, is one of the most powerful women on the planet, she can move markets and wants to rescue the global economy.
On a visit to Europe, euronews spoke to her.
Stefan Grobe, euronews: “ Let me start with the global economic outlook, now that 2012 has just started.
In your latest statements, you were worried about growth prospects and rising uncertainty.
But recently we have seen some rather positive economic data from the United States, from Germany, from China – aren’t you a bit too pessimistic?
”
Lagarde: ~~~ “ We certainly have seen for the last few days some positive signs, but it does not necessarily address all the issues that need to be addressed.
We think that 2012 should be a year of healing.
And for that, comprehensive solutions need to be put in place in a cooperative fashion; where, for instance, the euro partners in the euro zone, focus on growth, focus on higher firewalls and better and more integration.
Where on the other hand, the United States and Japan identify medium-term credible fiscal paths that will aim at reducing deficit and turning around the debt-trajectory that is theirs at the moment.
”
euronews: “ Let me get to what the IMF came up with recently.
The IMF is proposing to raise its lending capacity by as much as $500 billion after identifying a potential need for $1 trillion in financing in coming years. ~~~ That’s an extraordinary number.
What do you want to do with that money?
”
Lagarde: ~~~ “ Well, it is certainly not for the pleasure of raising high numbers and playing with the big figures. ~~~ We have calculated the financing needs for the next two years on a global basis in case sensible measures are taken going forward.
And these total financing needs amount to two trillion dollars.
The actual lending capacity that needs to be improved is half of that.
And we believe that the IMF must play its part by being a partner in that operation.
Hence, the additional lending capacity of $500 billion.
As I said, it applies to 2012, 2013, and in the best of circumstances that money will not be needed.
”
euronews: “ The follow-up question, of course, is: who will fund this?
The Americans have already announced that they have no intention to seek additional resources for the IMF.
And even G20 leaders in Cannes last year were at odds over the issue.
Euro countries have pledged up to $200 billion, but that’s not enough. ~~~ So, who is going to provide the rest of these funds?
”
Lagarde:
“ There is a commitment by the euro partners.
I have received also indications by other (IMF) members that they will be prepared to participate in the effort.
Particularly so, if the Europeans within the eurozone decide to strengthen their firewall.
euronews: “ The next G20 finance meeting will take place in Mexico in February, do you think there will be a deal by then?
“ The last communiqué of the G20 leaders in Cannes actually called for the finance ministers and central bank governors to work on this increased lending capacity for the IMF.
As I said, there is work ongoing, and you know, there is every expectation that significant progress can be made in the near future.
”
euronews: “ The US government has also said, repeatedly, that Europe, the eurozone, has the capacity to solve its problems alone.
To me, that sounds that Washington doesn’t want the IMF to play a bigger role in Europe.
What is your vision here, can the eurozone, can the EFSF or the ESM, erect a firewall without additional support from the IMF?
”
Lagarde: ~~~ “ You see, I am the head of a multilateral institution whose mission is to participate in the stability around the world which is based on multilateral and collective action.
And it is certainly our mission to participate in such a process.
I am sure that the membership will come together at the end in order to actually put in place the appropriate solution.
And I am also sure that the IMF will be party to that.
It’s going to take members, countries, efforts, collective resolve and determination to get to that comprehensive solution.
And the IMF will be party to that.
”
euronews: “ One last question: You will be in Davos this week for the World Economic Forum.
What do you want to accomplish there? ~~~ Whom do you want to meet?
”
Lagarde: “ Well, first of all I want to really communicate, I hope, properly the message that I have, that this is not just doom and gloom and there is a way out.
There is room for the appropriate set of policies to turn the situation around.
But what I’m also looking forward to in Davos is to meet all sorts of people.
It’s not as if it had to be corridor thinking.
We have to be open to new ideas, new models, and Davos is helping in that respect.
”
</text>
<text>
“ I live 500 metres from Maidan ” with these words Ukrainian writer Andrey Kurkov begins his account of the revolutionary events that took place in Kyiv last winter. ~~~ 
In his book ‘Ukraine Dairy’ the writer presents a detailed testimony of what happened in the Ukrainian capital from November 2013 to April 2014.
Visiting France to promote his new book, the writer shared with euronews’ Maria Ieshchenko his thoughts on the complex question of Ukrainian identity.
euronews “ Mr.
Kurkov, your books have been translated into 30 languages, you travel a lot, you give lectures and communicate with your readers.
If you had an opportunity to demolish one stereotypical view of Ukraine by Europeans, which would it be?
”
Andrey Kurkov “ Firstly, it would be the old cliché that’s still being used by foreign journalists – the one about Ukraine being split into a pro-Russian eastern part and west-leaning Western part.
When I meet university students I don’t see any difference between students in Donetsk (East) and Lviv (West).
Young people are similar everywhere, and they link themselves to Europe rather than to Russia, they think about their career and future accomplishments.
 ~~~ “ However the majority of the population were born in the former USSR of course.
It’s very difficult to change the mentality of those people but it’s necessary to find common ground with them.
euronews “ In your latest book ‘Ukraine Dairy’ you compare Ukraine to a sick child whose bed is surrounded by ‘worried adults’ – the EU and the US.
But if Ukraine were to be integrated into Europe with this ‘sick child’ status, is there a risk that this tag will stick forever and Ukraine will spend many years paying Europe back for having been ‘saved’?
”
Kurkov “ I don’t think there is such a risk.
Firstly, because Ukraine will not become a member of European Union while still being a ‘sick child.’ Of course, it will be cured first.
And secondly, there will always be the next sick child that Europe will have to take care of.
“ On the other hand, Ukraine could bring to the pan-European social and cultural space a new sense of of their own worth to each and every nation within the EU, because if today Ukraine is getting closer to Europe, it’s only because of its struggle to restore its own national dignity.
Europe cannot but see that.
”
euronews “ In your trilogy ‘The Geography of a Single Shot’ that took you nine years to write, you study the phenomenon of the so-called ‘Soviet person’ and ‘Soviet mentality’.
What do you actually mean by that?
Kurkov “ The Soviet mentality is that which is aimed only at the masses, the one where any individual, any person has no value at all and plays no role unless he/she is a leader.
“ Ukraine never accepted such a mentality because Ukrainians are your normal, average European individualists, an image of self-centred farmers comes to my mind.
That is to say they are well prepared to argue about the boundaries of their individual land but they wouldn’t be eager to join a big party.
The latter is a clear sign of abnormality for Ukraine, and this is why we have 184 registered political parties that basically have no ideology at all.
 ~~~ “ Every Ukrainian can, and normally does, fulfill his dream when he knows that his future depends on him alone and not on the system, the big party chief, the head of state or anything else for that matter.
euronews “ What role could and should people of culture and intellectuals play in today’s Ukraine at this difficult juncture?
Kurkov “ Our writers are quite good at public debates.
Many of them are talented bloggers who raise important issues in their articles and columns.
What we need now is an active and dynamic debate, a competition of words, ideas and philosophical issues.
“ For more than 15 years now I’ve been travelling around France, to promote my books of course, but I’ve been talking to people about Ukraine more than about my books.
And I guess that I have also contributed to the fact that today people in France know a lot more about Ukraine and they can finally distinguish Ukraine from Russia.
euronews “ Would you agree that it’s much easier to be a patriot of a successful and prosperous country than a troubled one in deep crisis?
Kurkov “ Oh yes, I’m sure it’s very gratifying to be a French patriot, to love the Alps, Annecy, Paris or Strasbourg.
It’s much harder to feel any patriotism in Zhytomyr or its region.
“ But in fact, when historic events bring up a certain moment of truth for the whole country – when its very existence is at stake – then this feeling of patriotism grows inside every individual irrespective of where this person was born or which language he or she speaks.
If this person has a Ukrainian passport and he or she realises that here is the Fatherland in need of help, they feel an urge to do anything to help the country survive.
 ~~~ “ This sense of patriotism will also bring out new political leaders, a young generation totally different from the post-Soviet and post-Communist generation.
euronews “ For many cultural figures – writers, directors, photographers – the winter’s events in Ukraine have been a source for their works.
But where do you see the dividing line between marking an historic turning point for the country and simply making money out of a hot topic?
Kurkov “ I remember the events of 1986 when the Chernobyl disaster happened and someone asked me: ‘When will you start writing a book about the Chernobyl disaster?’, and I said I wouldn’t do it because it was a real drama, a real-life tragedy that changed the lives of millions of people.
It is material for documentary prose.
“ Then there was the Orange Revolution of 2004, and immediately there were five or six books published and two or three movies released – all those fairy tales of love stories in Maidan Square in Kyiv, and all those stories are long forgotten by now because the real events were so much more dramatic than the fruit of the imagination of those writers and film directors.
“ The same can be said about this winter: no matter how talented a writer, he would never be able to recreate truthfully and credibly those events, or to create the real characters of the real Maidan – the genuine, sincere and resilient people who were there.
The reality was so dramatic that one shouldn’t try to adapt it, it should remain as it was.
”
</text>
<text>
The World Trade Organisation (WTO), was set up 20 years ago with the aim of creating a prosperous and unified global trading block. ~~~ That has not happened.
Meanwhile unilateral trade agreements – such as the one about to be negotiated between the European Union and the United States – are threatening to make the WTO irrelevant.
Euronews journalist Fariba Mavaddat raised that issue with outgoing World Trade Organisation Director General Pascal Lamy.
She also asked about the mark he has left on the organisation after eight years in charge, and where he sees it heading in the future.
Fariba Mavadda, euronews: “ Mr.
Pascal Lamy: “ Well, I don’t think my starting point would be the same as yours.
Your starting point is that WTO is becoming irrelevant.
The amount of world trade is roughly twice what it was 10 years ago.
Has this worked for development?
Yes.
The share of developing countries in international trade, the contribution of trade opening, trade expansion to their own development has been astounding.
”
euronews: “ So why has the Doha round (of trade talks) died a painful death?
”
Lamy: “ I would not agree that the Doha round is dead.
In a way, it is deadlocked but not dead.
And by the way..
euronews: “ Then why is it deadlocked?
”
Lamy: “ It is deadlocked because the world has changed very rapidly.
”
euronews: “ Have you changed with the world?
”
Lamy: “ Of course we have contributed to these changes.
The main driver of change is technology and development.
Trade has its own contribution to that, not least because it is creating efficiencies which then end up into the pockets of people who will become less poor, who can spend more and grow their economy.
”
euronews: “ In 2009, you said that you started a fierce fight against protectionism.
Now, more and more we see that regional trade agreements are thriving.
The latest and most controversial is the trade negotiations that are going to take place between the European Union and the US – a transatlantic trade agreement.
Now, isn’t it by nature, by itself, a protectionist step?
Lamy: “ If you look at the sum of these virtual trade agreements, these encompass roughly 80 percent of world trade.
And the question is whether this will happen in a convergent way or not.
If it does not happen, then it will not work.
”
euronews: “ Shall we talk about transatlantic negotiations?
”
Lamy: “ Transatlantic negotiations are just beginning, but again the beginning of a negotiation is not the end of a negotiation.
I know of plenty of trade agreements, the negotiations of which have started and so far have never ended.
”
euronews: “ Transatlantic agreement negotiations started rather badly, with France trying to practice protectionism with regard to its cinema and film industry.
Do you think that Mr Barroso, the president of the European Commission, was right in calling France ‘reactionary’?
”
Lamy: “ Frankly speaking, I think it is a big political mistake.
It is a serious misunderstanding because it amalgamates two very different issues.
One is cultural diversity.
The European Union Treaty recognises cultural diversity as a possible obstacle to market opening because the view is that cultural products are just not like socks, shirts or tyres.
The other thing is the vision by some that protectionism is a good thing.
And I would not amalgamate these two camps.
I totally agree with Mr. ~~~ Barroso that de-globalisation – this notion that protectionism is the way ahead – is a reactionary attitude.
Seen from the WTO, countries keep the capacity or not to open their cultural services if they so want.
There is no obligation.
”
euronews: “ It looks as if non-tariff issues are potential problems in the negotiations.
”
Lamy: “ I would follow you on this one.
It’s not so much that they are a problem.
It’s that in today’s world, and in tomorrow’s world of trade expansion, regulatory discrepancies have become, or may become, obstacles to trade, which is why convergence is the main question.
”
euronews: “ This is a big obstacle because in the economic climate that we are in, you can’t help but protect your society.
”
Lamy: “ It is not the old issue about protectionism.
At the moment half of your exports are imported which is the global economic integration model we live in now. ~~~ Shooting on your imports has one result which is deteriorating the competitiveness of your exports.
So, this sort of protectionism does not work.
What we have today is standards, regulations, norms, that are established not to protect the producer but to protect the consumer.
What will be at stake is whether Europeans and Americans can share a similar concept of precaution on GMOs, on poultry dechlorination water, on data privacy … ”
euronews: “ If there is no producer, that is if people are not working in factories and in offices, then there will be no consumers.
People wouldn’t be able to buy things if they don’t have jobs.
”
Lamy: “ The history of human economy development, economic progress – hence social progress, hence poverty reduction – has always worked by substituting less competitive activity with a more competitive activity.
What matters at the end of the day is whether this overall is job creating, and the answer to that is yes.
”
euronews: “ So in a nutshell, you think that the European society as a whole, in crisis at the moment, would evolve itself to prosperity?
”
Lamy: “ I think this is perfectly doable.
The engine for that remains trade expansion.
There needs to be conditions which pertain to the quality of domestic policies, of social systems, of education system, of capacity to innovate, to promote entrepreneurship.
The countries that have been doing best in globalisation, are the ones who have improved their social systems.
”
euronews: “ Mr.
Lamy, you are going to leave the helm to Mr Azavedo in September.
Is he going to continue with your vision? ~~~ ”
Lamy: “ I have no doubt that he is the most qualified to do that.
”
euronews: “ And where is the next stop on your CV, Brussels perhaps?
”
Lamy: “ I will start thinking what I will do next – while recognising that I am 66 years old, which is not exactly the same problem when you are 36 years old – I’ll start thinking about this after midnight on the 31st of August which is the moment when I will formally handover.
”
</text>
<text>
Having served one term as Chile’s first female president, Michelle Bachelet last year became the head of UN Women, an agency working for gender equality and the empowerment of women.
Last week in Brussels, she gave a keynote speech at the EU/UN Summit on Sustainable Energy for All.
One of Michelle Bachelet’s priorities is improving women’s access to safe energy, especially in developing countries, where women face both economic and social discrimination.
Isabel Marques da Silva, euronews: “ Despite all the promises and pledges of money, how can we make a real difference to the everyday lives of these women?
”
Michelle Bachelet: “ They do so much unpaid care work – that means they go water fetching, firewood collecting – that if we could provide those women with the energy needed to do even the most normal household activities like cooking, heating, lighting the home, it would save them so much time in doing it.
It would permit them to be better educated or involved in a productive activity.
”
euronews: “ Why was there a need to sign a memorandum of understanding between the UN Women agency and the EU if you already worked together?
Is there a specific field that you are focusing on in 2012?
Could you give me practical examples of bigger cooperation?
”
Michelle Bachelet: “ We have been working together in the past but we need to expand this relationship to make it a little bit more global, comprehensive and not ‘project to project’.
Of course someone could come here and talk to one commissioner, one office and get a project.
But we wanted something more.
We want to mainstream gender issues within European Commission activities in terms of how, if you work in governance and in political participation, women can have a place there.
If you are working in economic development, how the projects will include what happens to women, particularly resources for women.
”
euronews: “ And that also means more money?
Because you had to raise 500 million euros in your first year and then you wanted to double that number.
Were you able, in this first year of your mandate, to raise that money?
”
Michelle Bachelet: “ We wanted 300 million dollars for this year.
We have already raised 235, so we need to continue fund raising.
But we need much more money because we set the 300 million target because we knew that the economic situation is difficult.
Because our biggest donors until now have been mainly European countries like Spain and, of course, they are in a situation where they have to make a lot of adjustments.
Nordic countries have always been fantastic partners and they continue to be.
”
euronews: “ Not the United States?
”
Michelle Bachelet: “ Well, the United States supports us with some money, but it is not our biggest donor.
Australia is a very important donor and Japan and Korea.
”
euronews: “ So, you are optimistic?
”
Michelle Bachelet: “ No, no, no.
One thing is that we have done better, but it is not enough.
We need much more money!
Think that of the seven billion people that are living on the earth, 3.5 billion of them are women and 70 percent live in poverty.
”
euronews: “ Do you think that the Arab Spring movement is threatened by these more extremist parties demanding Sharia law?
What is the role of women in this very important democratic movement?
”
Michelle Bachelet: “ Well, we all saw with the Arab Spring that it could be a very big opportunity for women in terms of advancing their rights.
We can not speak about all countries in the same way.
Each one has a very different situation.
In Tunisia after the elections, 26 percent of the people that are going to make decisions are women.
We would like more than 30 percent but it is pretty good.
It is better than in some European countries!
But if you think of Egypt on the other hand, it is very low: only 1.8 percent of elected officials are female.
We need to work with the parties, and with religious leaders.
We have done very good things in many parts of the world.
”
Latin America for instance has many contrasts. ~~~ I mean, we see lots of women in power like in Brazil, Costa Rica, Argentina, but there is also a lot of violence against women and a lot of deaths due to illegal abortion.
What is the dialogue, with Catholic church leaders, for example?
”
Michelle Bachelet: “ It is the same with all the leaders of the world.
How can we find common ground on how to advance women’s rights, how to ensure women’s access to sexual and reproductive health services?
How to ensure that women have family planning.
If we see what is happening in the world today, maternal mortality means that every minute a women dies doing the most physiological and normal thing; giving birth to a child.
”
euronews: “ Yes, but for instance, the president of Brazil, Dilma Rousseff, pledged to ‘walk on that field’, but due to pressure from the Catholic Church, she … ”
Michelle Bachelet: “ Yes, I know, but we need to work with them and demonstrate how important it is for religion to help people’s lives.
So we need to do things to help people’s lives.
For example: there are 260 million girls and women today that want access to contraceptives.
They do not have access.
I can assure you that if we could provide those women with contraceptives – family planning, alternatives, whatever contraceptives – we would dramatically lessen maternal mortality.
”
euronews: “ That’s a field you know very well because you have done medical studies.
But you have also done military studies, I believe, and you were defence minister before you were president of Chile.
I’ve read that you want more female police officers, more female peacekeepers, and peace mediators.
Do you believe that women with weapons in their hands can make a difference in terms of violence and war?
”
Michelle Bachelet: “ I believe it, but there is also clear evidence on that.
For example, I believe women are peace builders and peacemakers and I have seen in many international situations that women can bring rationality and peace to some discussions.
In many places in the world where, unfortunately, women are seen as second or third class citizens, to see women in power – with guns, as powerful entrepreneurs, as political leaders, as presidents of republics and so on – gives a sense of strength, support and hope for women.
”
euronews: “ But with the exception of Nordic countries, there are less than 25 percent of women in governments, in parliaments, even in executive boards in the private sector.
Do you believe in quotas?
”
Michelle Bachelet: “ Oh completely!
First of all, political participation by women is the biggest gap in all the goals on women’s rights.
It is not only ‘We need to have women!’ It is that we have to have women because women give an added value.
Because when economists and businessmen are thinking how to recover the economy, one of the main issues that comes out is diversity, new ideas, creativity.
If you bring women and men together, bring people from different regions of the world together, you get a better outcome.
”
</text>
<text>
In October 2012 the capital of Afghanistan saw its first ever professional boxing match. ~~~ 
The fight that would have been banned under Taliban rule was dubbed the “ fight for peace ” .
In Kabul Hamid Rahimi of Afghanistan took on Said Mbelwa of Tanzania for the “ World Boxing Organisation Intercontinental Middleweight belt. ~~~ ”
Watched in the stadium by prominent Afghan figures, including politicians, as well as thousands of Afghan citizens from different ethnic groups, Rahimi won the fight in the seventh round.
 ~~~ Millions of Afghans also watched the bout on TV.
In a country that has been at war for over 30 years, Afghan President, Hamid Karzai, congratulated Rahimi along with “ the Afghan people ” for the win.
Though born Kabul, 29-year-old Hamid Rahimi has lived in Germany since he was nine.
euronews: Hamid Rahimi, Welcome to euronews.
Recently you took part in a boxing match that you dubbed the “ Fight for Peace.
” In a country that has been at war for 30 to 40 years, could this fight really change anything?
Hamid Rahimi: “ Considerably, I strongly believe in the project’s impact, it took two years of hard work to make it happen, much has been invested in it, for it to succeed, it’s something that I really care about. ~~~ 
“ I’ve been in Germany for 20-years, I didn’t come here just for German citizenship, I came here because there’s peace in this country, my dream for Afghanistan is to take back and establish peace in my homeland. ~~~ 
“ I’ve already felt war, I’ve lived through it, war is a hopeless misery, war does nothing for peace and tranquillity.
War has taken the lives of many people in Afghanistan and I believe there are more victims of war in Afghanistan than anywhere else in the world. ~~~ ”
euronews: You said that one of the objectives of the fight was to support women’s rights, I also saw on YouTube that you train female boxers in Afghanistan.
Do you not feel you’re moving too fast for Afghan society considering that, under Taliban rule, women were not even allowed to work or go out?
Hamid Rahimi: “Growing up in Germany, with my sister and mother, I was always the protector “ like a lion ” I learned so much from them, if they had not supported me I could never have been so successful, I think we should be close to our sisters and mothers, they must go to school, they must be able to work shoulder to shoulder next to men, if we want our homeland, Afghanistan, to advance and progress, this is very important for me.
euronews: “Many people in Afghanistan today compare you to Muhammad Ali, they say that he fought to help black people and you fight for the Afghan people, Do you think that one day you could achieve what Muhammad Ali did?”
Hamid Rahimi: “Well, Ali is a Legend, he helped the African people, black people, a lot.
He is my idol, my hero, but me, I’m Hamid and Ali is Ali.
“I try to do everything for my country, I think it’s possible to establish peace but there has to be the desire, the will to do it, if not..
then even if there are thousands of military forces there, they will not be able to create peace.
“Alexander the Great, Genghis Khan, the British and even the Russians have come before, and right now there are soldiers from over 52 countries in Afghanistan but what have they done?
the Afghan people are more miserable than ever. ~~~ 
“I know Kabul very well and the inhabitants of this city.
The situation has deteriorated compared to the time of the Taliban, there were not as many poor children in the streets as we see today .
“After the foreigners came, it’s true that some things have changed for the better; schools have been built, but I think with all the money they spent, they could do better.
Today, there are a small number of Afghans who have became billionaires and then the rest of the people are very poor, look, there are many children from ordinary families that do not go to school, they become beggars instead, working 24/7, do you call that an improvement?
Do you call this help?
These children don’t even have a place to sleep, they take drugs, and you can see they have broken teeth, these are the children who go on to become suicide bombers.”
euronews: “So you think we should change the culture and ideologies of people?”
Hamid Rahimi: “Yes, that’s exactly right, that’s what I’m thinking, when you walk across Afghanistan, Kabul, for example, you see the images of the heroes everywhere, people who I won’t name, who become important thanks to their military career.
I want to change that, I want sporting champions to take the place of the military or the soldier.
When I was young my idol was Michael Jordan.
“From Germany to the United States it is pictures of sports champions that hang on the walls, I want this to also be the case in Afghanistan.
Whether or not Bin Laden is alive his ideas are still present, four to five months ago an 11-year-old detonated a bomb in Paktia, Bin Laden is dead, but his thoughts and beliefs remain alive.
Young people must be told that suicide bombings are wrong, it is forbidden by the Qur’an. ~~~ 
“Do sport if you want to become a champion, do good things if you want peace, don’t kill anyone, don’t destroy anything if you believe in God, let him decide for the others not you, I am nobody to decide whether to kill someone because they are an infidel, I am not allowed to do that.”
euronews: “You are popular and you have strong convictions for peace in Afghanistan.
Doesn’t that upset the Taliban, Have they never threatened you, to make you stop what you are doing?”
Hamid Rahimi: “The Taliban is not the only enemy of my country, there were many others who were opposed to my project, who wanted to make sure it doesn’t lead to anything.
These threats and obstacles are numerous in Afghanistan, but it’s these same threats that stimulate me and encourage me and help me to keep going.
 ~~~ “If I withdraw now, peace will never return to the country.
You know, the day of my fight, all Afghans, from the street-kids in Karzai to women who had never seen a boxing match, and also our old fathers and grandfathers, all of them prayed for me, their prayers protect me, so I am afraid of nothing, I only fear god.
“And I am firm in my desire to move forward, I lived through the war, for 9 years, and I know that you need help in times of war.
If not then you’re let down.”
euronews: “In all that you have told me, I see that you have a major concern, the policy and the situation of the Afghan people, might you get in to politics one day in the same way that Vitaly Klitchko, the Ukrainian world champion has done?”
Hamid Rahimi: I do not want to go into politics as such, but it has already been offered, in politics you have different factions and parties, but I want to be with the entity of the Afghan people, I don’t want to work with just one party.
My project “fight for peace” is a political project, a policy led by a sportsman who seeks peace for his people, not a politician who tries to kill and impose his own rules.”
“You know, the night of my fight everyone, every small trader had closed their business to watch my fight, it is a honour for me and my team, we organised something for all Afghans, we united Afghans and brought smiles to the people of Afghanistan, it’s a source of great pleasure for me.”
</text>
<text>
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, has been talking to euronews about water and the part it has played in the conflict with Israel.
He was attending the sixth World Water Forum in Marseille. ~~~ There have been 21 armed disputes over water in recent history and 18 of them involved Israel.
Israel has controlled water supplies in the West Bank and Gaza Strip since it first occupied the areas in 1967.
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews: “ You are here to participate in the World Water Congress, what are the most pressing problems with regard to the provision of water in Palestine?
”
Salam Fayyad: “ Water scarcity.
Certainly, we are facing water poverty at a high level.
It is clear the lack of equal distribution confirms the occupation and favours Israel and settlers.
This implies prejudice against the Palestinian people; in general the region as a whole is facing water poverty and it affects us badly, particularly in the Gaza Strip and West Bank.
“ I am here because an important project will be announced during the conference by the French government and the French prime minister who is to unveil this vital, strategic water project for water desalination in the Gaza Strip.
That’s about 70 litres per capita per day in Palestine, compared to 100 litres according to the WHO criteria, so it is less than the minimum approved by WHO and compared to Israel, well they get three times that amount.
“ In the settlements there is a big difference between the settlers and Palestinians especially in the Jordan Valley, the proportion of water available to the settlers is about 18 times more than the Palestinians get.
”
euronews: “ You are blaming the Israelis as they control most water sources in the Palestinian territories, but the Oslo agreement, specifically Article 40, gave legitimacy to the Israelis to control most sources of water.
Here we are back again today to talk about the same problem.
Is there a contradiction in attitudes from the Palestinian leaders?
”
Salam Fayyad: “ The Oslo agreement does not give the right for the Israelis to use water in this unfair way, and when we talk about the areas of shared water sources, we can say they don’t have the right to exploit 90 percent of the shared sources for the benefit of Israel, and if this was the case, we would not be here to discuss this matter now.
We consider this attitude as part of the command and control relating to the Israeli occupation.
“ In 2011, Israel destroyed about 46 water utilities in the West Bank.
For example, they annihilated wells collecting water which dated back to Roman times.
In addition Israel does not allow us – in the Palestinian National Authority – to dig water wells until we obtain licenses authorised by them.
“ So I would like to know how Oslo allowed them to do this, how come Oslo allowed the Israeli occupation to sabotage the wells?
”
euronews: “ What are the main economic problems that the Palestinian National Authority is facing these days?
”
Salam Fayyad: “ The Palestinian national economy works below production capacity, thus it is difficult to create jobs.
The situation would be better if there was no Israeli political control and occupation.
The contact between Palestine and the rest of the world is restricted by the procedures of the occupation.
Our authority does not control the borders, does not it control the crossing points and communication with the outside world, everything is controlled by Israel through the control system and the arbitrary use of all forms of abuse, which limits our ability to reach full production capacity.
The only solution is to end the occupation.
”
euronews: “ You have declared more than once that the PA is close to the establishment of a Palestinian state.
You have even set a timetable for the establishment of the state, how are you going to achieve this?
”
Salam Fayyad: “ Preparedness and readiness for establishing the state are different from a state itself, that is another matter.
The concept of an independent state with full sovereignty over the entire land occupied since 1967 in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank and East Jerusalem, of course, requires ending the Israeli occupation.
What we declared is the readiness and this is witnessed by the international community about a year ago.
”
euronews: “ Do you mean you are now ready to establish a Palestinian state?
”
Salam Fayyad: “ This has been confirmed by reports from international institutions, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the United Nations.
Those reports examined our institutions and the Palestinian National Authority and assessed their ability to provide services in different areas to reach the main goal.
”
euronews: “ The Palestinian National Authority has no control over most of the Palestinian territories, including liberated Palestinian towns.
There is no full sovereignty over the city through what we see, like ongoing violations by the Israelis.
At the same time the negotiations are at a standstill as you say, is the Palestinian leadership thinking of dissolving the PA as an option?
”
Salam Fayyad: “ There is no talk of dissolving the PA at all, the PA is basically a phased transition, until we reach or achieve our goal which is the state.
The PA is not philanthropic, its the result of continuing decades of struggle.
The PA is considered as a tool of resistance and to enable the Palestinian people to be in a better situation.
What’s required is to draw the attention of the international community to this important issue.
That the PA is important as a tool for the Palestinians to get back their full rights and to achieve their dream.
The PA will achieve it, God willing.
”
</text>
<text>
France has recently come under pressure to change the way it treats businesses – cut red-tape, reduce corporation tax and generally become more business friendly – if it is to reverse the country’s economic stagnation and falling GDP. ~~~ 
Fleur Pellerin is the French minister in charge of SMEs (small and medium sized companies), innovation and the digital economy.
euronews: “ President Hollande has announced that digital is one of the four mainstays of the govermment’s new investment plan over the next 10 years.
What exactly does that mean?
Fleur Pellerin: “ While he was campaigning, Francois Hollande, who was not president at that time, made digital a priority, because his fourth campaign pledge was to provide the French with “ high speed ” [internet] within 10 years.
Thus it was already a major commitment.
The plan we developed and are now in the process of rolling out is part of that. ~~~ 
“ It is true that, as part of the investment strategy, we will announce in the coming weeks, (before the summer), four priorities; digital, large-scale infrastructure, health and the transition to environmentally-friendly power sources.
“ So there are great possibilities. ~~~ I made a number of proposals to finance programmes in areas for the future; for example Big Data, calculating performance, i-health and online education.
I think there are many fields where we have very great strengths in France, but we need to stimulate public interest. ~~~ Then we can develop these future paths for our economy.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Do you think the proposals of the Lescure report (recommendations by former Canal Plus chief Pierre Lescure on France’s cultural policies in the digital age) are a good basis for ensuring the “ French cultural exception ” in the digital era?
For example, are you in favour of a tax on smartphones to support culture?
I think that this report raises many questions.
The tax on mobile equipment, devices, screens, should be viewed from a wider perspective.
“ In my opinion, we need to look at downloads; that is personal downloading.
The report aims to redress the losses suffered by authors, publishers and producers, when you copy, for private use, music or film. ~~~ 
“ Today we see the development of streaming sites such as Deezer, Spotify etc.
for music and there are other sites for films – same thing.
It is clear that private downloading doesn’t make sense anymore.
There is no question of France increasing the tax burden.
euronews: “ You are setting up a fight with the US net giants, using the rules of the French state.
Is this fair in an era of globalisation where national frontiers no longer exist?
So I think it’s normal for these same companies to respect local rights, customs and laws, even if they do not have their headquarters in said country. ~~~ 
“ Thus it seems reasonable to me that these companies, in some ways, respect and integrate into the ecosystem of the country, even if they are businesses that do not really have frontiers.
euronews: “ But if new taxes are introduced, such as a tax on bandwidth, or tax-per-click, isn’t there a risk the cost will fall on the customer?
Pellerin: “ That’s difficult to accept.
You know what has happened in England – well some companies, whom I will not name, pay virtually no tax throughout the world.
That is, there are companies making tens of billions or hundreds of billions of euros of net profit and paying only two to five percent of taxes worldwide.
“ It is unacceptable that other businesses pay up to 30 percent, 35 percent – in the United States 38 percent – tax on profits.
I think it is imperative to re-establish ‘tax fairness’ between those companies that are able to optimise their taxes and those who can’t.
euronews: “ I see you have several websites open on your desktop: Google, Apple, Amazon … What do you see as the real priority issues? ~~~ ”
Pellerin: “ It’s all a priority.
I’m not in the business of fighting US companies, I don’t think that’s the point.
To repeat – the idea is to re-establish equality between companies, even for those that are foreign owned.
“ I think what’s important now is to find the right balance; to restore tax fairness and facilitate innovation, but not to take measures which might stifle any progress made possible by new technologies such as the internet.
euronews: France is still an attractive country for foreign investment.
Do you think cases such as Dailymotion – when the sale of that company was blocked by the government – is likely to spoil that?
Pellerin: “ No, I think what is really important is the tools we have in place now to retain the country’s attractiveness.
You’re right.
Last year 700 new foreign firms invested, creating employment in France.
Which is a significant figure.
“ And 20,000 foreign companies currently operate on French soil, which I think should, in a difficult economic period, highlight the assets we have.
I think we already have structural advantages such as a well-educated workforce, very good engineers, cost of energy is relatively low, good transport, good communications infrastructure.
The cost of running a company is ultimately not as high as all that in France, even if we include the level of taxation. ~~~ We have all these advantages. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ So, in your opinion, the Dailymotion case is not that important?
euronews: “ Even though President Hollande said it is not on the agenda, there is much talk about a possible government reshuffle.
Are you confident you will be in your ministry for a long time?
Pellerin: “ I work best when given a long time!
You know, this is a job where you need a lot of humility.
The minister and the President of the Republic will judge the effectiveness of both the government and the people who make up the government.
Some of which are already quite advanced, others will take longer.
The investment strategy, for example, is a very long term project, so for the digital sector, you need to imagine France in 20 or 30 years or so. ~~~ “ I will continue to work on these issues and then afterwards, well you know, c’est la vie.
I think if you are in politics, you must accept things are precarious – it’s part of the game. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
On the 24th and 25th February, Italy held highly unusual elections.
The vote showed that many Italians were disgusted with traditional politics and a big winner from that was Beppe Grillo, the comedian and founder of the anti-political Five Star Movement.
Before the election euronews went along as he toured Sicily, an area where Silvio Berlusconi’s coalition dominated politics until the last regional elections, when Grillo’s party took 15 seats in the local parliament. ~~~ 
In Caltanissetta, he told our correspondent Alberto de Filippis: “ I am not a candidate.
Parliament’s not for me.
These people, these thieves, who have robbed this country cannot even imagine that someone, even a comedian, might do something unless it was for the money.
” ~~~ So – again before the election – we asked what would his movement do in parliament?
 ~~~ He told us: “ First we will eliminate electoral refunds.
We will cut off the feed hose.
We will not take the roughly 100 million euros that the system would give us as a party entering the parliament.
The 15 MPs we have in the Sicilian parliament have voluntarily given up 70 percent of their own salaries.
It’s survival credit. ~~~ It’s a credit for dignity.
” ~~~ Paying for parliament and political parties and salaries costs Italy around one billion euros per year.
Critics wonder if the politicians are giving the country its money’s worth.
Grillo responds: “ We want to give the citizens tools.
They must have the last word.
We want it to be possible for proposals to be initiated by referendum without requiring a certain quorum.
The parliament must be constitutionally obliged to discuss proposed laws. ~~~ So, if 50,000 people ask for a law, this law MUST be discussed in parliament.
Today’s Constitution doesn’t provide for that.
For us, the citizens must be the ones who says “ yes OR no ” about a project to build a highway, a bicycle path, a hospital, any big public project.
We ask that citizens have the last word.
They must become the ‘state’ and enough with the intermediaries. ~~~ ”
More than half the candidates with Grillo’s Five Star Movement are women.
No other party is doing that.
He also feels strongly that the media should be balanced and impartial, pointing at our video camera while roaring onstage to a crowd: “ This is euronews!
It’s a European news channel broadcasting in 12 languages!
They are showing us all over the world.
That is while Italian channels Rete3, Canale5 or Rete4 ridicule us as fools, instead of presenting objective information!
” ~~~ Grillo is considered a populist by the mainstream.
He doesn’t hide it or deny it. ~~~ He asks: ‘Let’s hear it from you!’
Grillo’s movement is also raising jitters in European Union circles, and in EU partner states.
He said: “ In Europe, this movement is scary.
We want to re-open discussion of every European treaty and decision, from the Bolkestein directive to our military interventions in Libya, Afghanistan and Mali.
We want to discuss agriculture and fisheries.
We have to discuss debt. ~~~ We are strangled by debt.
We pay 100 billion euros on a roughly 2.2 trillion euro debt.
We must find a solution.
I don’t have one but we must discuss it.
We do have economists inside the movement and we must look for a solution, because the debt is eating our lives.
There is no money but there is hope.
Look into the eyes of Sicilians.
They look different.
Change starts here.
Europe was a marvellous thing as its fathers imagined it.
It has become something different.
Germany?
It isn’t doing as well as people think.
By buying its exports, we Europeans have paid for its reunification, but now they’re starting to have problems.
Because the West is in crisis. ~~~ ”
With his characteristic exaggeration he questions whether commitments behind certain international agreements are honest.
Grillo said: “ When China joined the World Trade Organisation, it signed 21 points and respected none.
Have you ever talked to a Chinese trader?
They don’t respect a contract.
And I am supposed to respect whatever they do?
Hang on a second – where is that written?
Angela Merkel went to China to sell Italian bonds, not German bonds.
China took those credits knowing they were worthless.
Because the Italian government helped them to invest in Italy under very profitable fiscal legislation. ~~~ They buy our debt through Merkel?
Get real! ~~~ ” ~~~ The five stars of the movement’s name represent its members’ main interests: water, transport, development, Internet availability and the environment.
Grillo admits that inconsistencies will need to be worked out – insists on it.
Grillo continued: “ I want my sovereignty back.
I want my food sovereignty back.
Food distribution is controlled by French companies.
They come here and they sell French milk and French cheese.
Here?
In Italy?
Enough.
I want protection.
Try to sell Chinese steel in the USA.
It is impossible.
And that’s a democracy there.
It is not the Soviet Union.
Here in Sicily, fishermen are obliged to use nets with large holes imposed by the EU.
These nets are useless, so fishermen have to get illegal nets in order to survive, and they are forced to destroy the environment.
They cannot fish tuna – but the Japanese can.
And they come here with fishing boats as big as aircraft carriers!
” ~~~ The comedian from Genoa is the figurehead leading a team of politically-untested candidates – and Italians have heard big promises so many times.
Feeling terribly let down by the mainstream, many potential voters, undecided, seemed caught in the glare.
</text>
<text>
The debate on Scottish independence from the United Kingdom has intensified over the summer.
A referendum is expected in autumn 2014.
The campaign for independence is being led by Alex Salmond, leader of the Scottish Nationalists and First Minister of Scotland’s devolved government.
Euronews spoke with him in Edinburgh:
Ali Sheikholeslami, euronews: “ First Minister, by almost any standard the United Kingdom has been a massively successful project for Scotland – let’s say politically, intellectually and economically. ~~~ It has brought benefits for Scotland that many countries can only dream of.
So, what is so terrible about the United Kingdom that you want to walk away from it to probably a very uncertain future?
” ~~~ Alex Salmond, First Minister of Scotland: “ Well, I think the best things which are produced in these islands will continue.
The social union with our other countries in these islands … England, Ireland, Wales will be our closest allies, but in terms of what Scotland can do will be much more successful as an independent country. ~~~ 
“ Take one example: Scotland is one of the most rich, diverse countries in the world.
We have the Edinburgh International Festival at the present moment where over a month, over a variety of art forms, we have a display of the greatest artistic talent on the planet.
And yet Scotland, as a country which hosts that celebration of international culture, doesn’t even have its own dedicated, English language television channel, not even one and that’s a ridiculous situation and shows how Scotland is underperforming.
 ~~~ In economic terms, Scotland is currently, as part of the United Kingdom, the 20th most prosperous country in the world, about that.
With independence we’d become the sixth most prosperous country in the world.
But I think the difference culturally would also open a way for Scotland to become much more successful and contribute more to the world scene.
” ~~~ Euronews: “ But, let’s say, on the economic side, I understand that your campaign is saying on the first day of independence, Scotland will look pretty much the same as it does today.
But oil and gas resources are diminishing, the renewable market is pretty much uncharted waters.
The financial sector that is very successful in this country is probably going to be a lot smaller after independence.
How can you make sure that an independent Scottish economy will be viable?
Salmond: “ I’m interested in your question.
Scotland has about 90 percent of the European Union’s oil and gas reserves, worth approximately one and a half trillion, that’s one and a half trillion pounds sterling over the next 40 or 50 years.
I’m sure, any other member country of the European Union would give their eye teeth to have one and a half trillion pounds of hydro-carbon reserves … and in terms of renewable energy, having a quarter – that’s 25 percent of Europe’s potential in marine energy, with one per cent of the population is a pretty substantial advantage in the modern world.
“ The reason why part of Scotland’s resources, I mean Scotland has, well water, incredibly ample supplies of clean, fresh water and a highly successful company which both produces and markets these supplies.
That’s in contrast, not just to other countries but friends south of the border. ~~~ 
“ So, we’re talking about a country with massive natural resources, with a talented, ingenius population who have given the world so many of the great inventions of the modern age, including television, incidentally, and some people argue that that country couldn’t be successful or even more successful as an independent country.
I think these people are living in cloud cuckoo land.
I think we want to live in a world where Scotland, as an independent country contributes to itself and governing itself better.
Euronews: “ You talked about the oil and gas resources which are massive and I absolutely agree with that, however, I think the pivotal question will be, in terms of any settlement between Holyrood and Westminster, the share of basically, the UK’s national debt versus oil and gas revenues.
Have you got a formula for that?
” ~~~ Salmond: “ It’s quite interesting actually, the UK debt by the time of independence will be around, well be certainly over a trillion pounds.
The oil and gas reserves are worth about a trillion pounds. ~~~ 
“ Of course, the difference is that Scotland will have to take a proportionate share, a population share of the UK debt, but of course they will be entitled to share of oil and gas revenues which are in Scottish waters, which are in the Scottish sector, which any other country would have, which is about 90 per cent, so Scotland would gain title over 90 per cent of these substantial resources but would have to take 10 per cent of the UK national debt. ~~~ Incidentally, you know, that is not a good thing, you know: having UK debt at such a level.
” ~~~ Euronews: “ But there’s always this danger that, OK: is the Scottish National Party working on those values that you just pointed out or is a part of it, more to do … ”
Salmond: “ … Spit it out!
” ~~~ Euronews: “ It’s more to do with, basically anti-English sentiment, quite ugly sentiments, which have been going on for a long time.
You know what I’m trying to say.
For instance, look at your alternative anthem.
It goes back to some barbaric works of King Edward II in 1314.
That’s a long time ago.
” ~~~ Salmond: “ Yes, and the national anthem ‘God Save the Queen’, in one of the verses which is not often sung now, has a line saying: “ God save Marshal Wade, rebellious Scots to crush ” .
Or the Marseillaise celebrates a necessary revolution but quite a violent one as I remember.
And actually, Flower of Scotland, which you’re referring to, is an unofficial national anthem, but of course actually makes the point – to be fair to the song: “ These days are past now and in the past they must remain ” .
That’s the point it’s making, that there is a difference between the past and the future.
I think we’ve demonstrated, not just recently as a parliament and the SNP as a political party but as a country, that we have an interest in equality in Scotland and equality internationally.
Euronews: “ But are you 100 per cent committed to independence?
Because many people are now arguing that because you are aware that you may not win the vote, you might move towards ‘devo max’ which will, basically keep your foreign affairs and defence within the United Kingdom. ~~~ ”
Salmond: “ I’ve always said that I would respect the wishes of people in Scotland in terms of what they wanted to do.
In 1997, I campaigned with Donald Dewar, then the Labour leader, in an alliance to have a Scottish parliament, not because I was satisfied with a Scottish parliament but because I believed that was progress for Scotland.
But one thing is certain, throughout my political career I’ve articulated the case for independence for Scotland, and in two years time the opportunity for Scotland to vote for independence will be on the ballot paper, of that you can be absolutely certain, and I hope and believe that a majority of my fellow country people, men and women, will take that opportunity and vote our country into an independent state which will then contribute to Europe and the rest of the planet. ~~~ ” ~~~ Follow Ali Sheikholeslami on Twitter
</text>
<text>
Najib Mikati, the Prime Minister of Lebanon has made his first official visit to Brussels.
Lebanon has earned plaudits for their management of the country’s frontier with Syria, having prevented any deterioration in the security situation there.
Euronews caught up with Mr Mikati in Brussels, for this exclusive interview.
 ~~~ Charles Salamé, Euronews: “ Najib Mikati, Prime Minister of Lebanon, welcome to Euronews.
The European Union – which is drowning in debt and going through political changes – is still giving aid to Lebanon.
How do you see that?
” ~~~ Najib Mikati, the Prime Minister of Lebanon: “ The European Union supports Arab and Mediterranean countries which are becoming democracies.
I think that the EU, which helps new democracies, thinks it is useful to help Lebanon too.
It is a country which historically shares the values of democracy and freedom with Europe within the framework of a real partnership. ~~~ ”
Charles Salamé Euronews: “ The president of the European Commission, José Barroso, has said that he would like to encourage Lebanon to take steps to join the World Trade Organisation, and he would support such a move.
” ~~~ Najib Mikati, the Prime Minister of Lebanon:
“ Lebanon has so far fulfilled 80% of the criteria for joining the WTO, and we will complete the application as soon as the Lebanese parliament has adopted the 8 laws necessary to join, but it seems that these 8 laws need to be adapted according to the decisions taken by the legislative committee of the previous government. ~~~ ”
Charles Salamé Euronews: “ President Mikati, the International Monetary Fund classes Lebanese growth as being the eighth fastest amongst the Arab countries, just after the oil-producing Gulf countries, but Lebabon’s public debt is billions of dollars.
” ~~~ Najib Mikati, the Prime Minister of Lebanon:
“ Monetary stability is very important in a country like Lebanon, where despite high public debt, the country can still borrow in dollars, with interest of 6% over 15 years.
This rate isn’t even offered to all European countries, I’m certain that some of them can’t get loans at this rate over 15 years. ~~~ ”
Charles Salamé Euronews: “ Belgium contributes to the peace keeping forces in the south of Lebanon.
After your talks with Belgian leaders, what is the future for the United Nations Interim Forces in Lebanon?
Najib Mikati, the Prime Minister of Lebanon:
“ I saw amongst the Belgian and European leaders, a willingness to maintain their essential contributions to the peace force in south Lebanon, despite a certain reduction in the number of soldiers from countries like France and Spain.
This isn’t a withdrawal from Lebanon but a reduction due to specific economic contractions in certain countries.
” ~~~ Charles Salamé, Euronews: “ Have enquiries been carried out to find out who organised the attacks against the UN Interim Forces in southern Lebanon?
” ~~~ Najib Mikati, the Prime Minister of Lebanon:
“ It’s a security question to be tackled by the Lebanese authories and the UN who have information about this. ~~~ ”
Charles Salamé Euronews: “ Will they publish them?
” ~~~ Najib Mikati, the Prime Minister of Lebanon:
” ~~~ Charles Salamé Euronews: “ Mr Mikati, your government contains people opposed to the Syrian regime as well those who are for it.
But political commentators in Europe think that the constitution of this government has prevented the outbreak of war in the region.
” ~~~ Najib Mikati, the Prime Minister of Lebanon:
“ Lebanon has no interest in getting mixed up in the Syrian conflict but Lebanon society is divided about the events in Syria.
But we do not have the capacity to change the course of events even if the majority of the Lebanese and their government is pro the Syrian regime or against it.
Taking an official position would damage Lebanese society and I can’t allow that. ~~~ ”
Charles Salamé, Euronews: “ Don’t you fear that this policy could lose its value if military intervention was taken against the Syrian regime?
Aren’t you afraid of that? ~~~ ”
Najib Mikati, the Prime Minister of Lebanon:
“ Our current policy is that we support the plan proposed by Kofi Anan and the protocols which have been signed.
Other positions will be taken according to the results obtained by this plan.
Charles Salamé, Euronews: “ My last question, Mr Mikati, is about the role of Lebanon in the Arab world.
How do see the dynamics of that? ~~~ ”
Najib Mikati, the Prime Minister of Lebanon:
“ Lebanon has always been a communication bridge between all the Arab countries, but where are these countries now?
Where is the Arab League?
The Arab Spring brought changes which it need to stabilise now; after which Lebanon can play its part, but right now, we have to work towards maintaining the national security and unity of Lebanon. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
The European Union is currently undergoing one of the most turbulent economic periods in its short history, with political, ideological and financial divisions threatening to bring its fragile edifice tumbling down.
 ~~~ Andrei Beketov, Euronews:
Euronews welcomes to its studio the President of Cyprus, whose country has just taken over the presidency of the Council of the European Union.
What is the most important thing that you want to achieve in the next six months?
Demetris Christofias:
Together with the European Commission and the European Parliament (we are all part and parcel of the European Union) we need to put forward a programme to tackle economic problems.
The main priority will be negotiations on the multi-annual financial framework, which will be conducted with the 27 EU members, in particular the Eurozone partners, and all the institutions until December.
We can not resolve the economic crisis exclusively through the policy of budgetary austerity.
We can not go forward without development, without creation of jobs, without a more gradual or fairer distribution of wealth produced in the European Union.
This is our general philosophy.
Euronews:
When you were talking about too much austerity, I wonder whether it was the Communist in you talking.
Your ideology isn’t shared by many European politicians.
How will your Communist views affect the Cypriot presidency and maybe the policy of the whole of the European Union?
Demetris Christofias:
Before assuming the post of the president of the Republic of Cyprus, I made it clear that I will not try to implement my own Communist ideology.
I will use the capitalist system, but in a fair way.
Maybe capitalism is inhumane but at the same time we can have fairer distribution of wealth without introducing a communist regime.
I am a member of a political party of working people, it is a progressive party.
Now is the time to solve the daily problems of people and nations.
We will see how we handle the ideology issue later.
Euronews:
Also on your background, if I may. ~~~ You studied in Russia, you speak Russian.
Does it mean that Brussels will perhaps pay more attention to relations with Russia while you are EU president?
Demetris Christofias:
In my view, the European Union must have relations of friendship and cooperation with Russia which is also part of Europe, we have to acknowledge that.
Therefore, if and when needed, we will play a significant role.
Euronews:
Cyprus is expected to lead other countries out of the crisis.
But Cyprus is seeking financial help for itself.
How will you cope with the two apparently contradictory tasks?
Demetris Christofias:
I don’t think these tasks are contradictory and conflicting.
The fact that Cyprus needs external aid to capitalise some banks that have been exposed to Greek bonds doesn’t mean that we must not work for the benefit of other countries that need assistance.
I think in Cyprus we dont have big problems with budgetary discipline.
Our biggest problem – our banks’ exposure – will be solved with European help.
Euronews:
For most of the European countries, Cyprus is a remote island in the Mediterranean.
Could that geographical location be an advantage now?
Demetris Christofias:
Because of its location at the southern border of the European Union, Cyprus can play a very important role as the bridge of a common understanding, friendship and cooperation of the EU with the countries of the region, the Middle East and North Africa.
We have very good relations with countries that went through the Arab spring.
Euronews:
How is the EU going to deal with Turkey’s refusal to cooperate with it on many issues during Cyprus’ presidency?
Demetris Christofias:
I think it is a shame that the Turkish government has sent different messages in the past, and only now decides to get tough.
My message to Turkey is that it should respect the Republic of Cyprus as an equal member of the European Union.
Euronews:
What other benefits do you see from your country’s presidency in the EU for the issue of reunification?
Demetris Christofias:
The fact that one part of Cyprus is occupied by the military forces of a neighbouring country, which aspires to be a member of the European Union is in itself contradictory.
We do not have the will or the force to resolve our problems with Turkey through military means.
We have to find peaceful means to develop dialogue.
I have suggested it several times to Mr Erdogan and Mr Gul, but unfortunately they don’t recognise me as the president of the Republic of Cyprus.
Euronews:
How will Cyprus be different from its predecessors in the EU presidency – Denmark, Poland and others?
Demetris Christofias:
One should not expect a revolution from Cyprus inside the European Union.
However, because of the philosophy which I expressed earlier, I am happy to say that the Council is starting to be a little less liberal. ~~~ It has moved towards the policy of solidarity among the people and states of the Union.
Euronews:
Demetris Christofias, president of Cyprus and Council of the EU, thank you very much for the interview.
Demetris Christofias:
Thank you for inviting me.
</text>
<text>
Joaquín Salvador Lavado, “ Quino ” is the first cartoonist to receive a Prince of Asturias Award in the Communications and Humanities category.
Quino is the father of Mafalda, born from his pen fifty years ago.
Quino has glaucoma and so he cannot continue to draw.
Nevertheless, questions and reflections about the young Mafalda have lost none of their striking simplicity.
 ~~~ Francisco Fuentes, euronews: “ Welcome, thanks for joining us.
”
Cartoonist “ Thank you.
”
Euronews “ What is the significance of the Prince of Asturias Award for you, what are your thoughts on being awarded it?
”
Quino: Asturias Award for Communication laureate: “ I am very happy because it is a prize for which I have always had great respect.
It has always been awarded to people whose work I love greatly and for whom I have great respect.
”
euronews: “ You are the first comic cartoonist to win the award.
”
Quino: “ Yes and not the last.
” .
euronews: “ Do you think generally cartoonists in the world who are working in the humorous genre are recognised enough?
”
Quino: “ I think so.
I think since Umberto Eco conferred a certain category in this kind of comic literature, things are improving a lot for us.
”
euronews: “ How do you see the future of comic cartoons?
”
Quino: “ We are gong through a technological transition and for now do not know where it will lead.
It’s like the e-book.
At the beginning there was the fear that this technology would signal the end for paper but that has not happened.
So it is difficult to predict the future.
”
euronews: “ Would you have used iPad, tablets, twitter in your drawings today?
”
Quino: “ At the beginning of this new era, I began to amuse myself by drawing with all this new technology, using these terms, most of them in English, and that people use without really knowing what they want say.
I think technology will change human relationships.
They have already changed quite a lot, but with what is a rather odd handicap: people are linked to thousands of others, but they do not have friends with whom to have a conversation.
It is very curious.
“
euronews: “ Let’s talk a little about Mafalda which is one of the reasons for which we are here in Asturias.
She just turned 50 and for several months an exhibition toured the world.
Your humorous vignettes, your thoughts are very important.
When you started drawing Mafalda did you imagine it would be like this?
“
Quino: “ No.
I was not expecting anything.
I started publishing this character with little thought as to who she was.
I had not worked enough before publishing, but at some point I reflected on the question of how to give the character continuity.
So I thought it was a good idea for Mafalda to ask her parents questions which they couldn’t answer like: “ Why is there war?
Why are people poor?
Why do we destroy the world?
I found it was a good way to generate interest in Mafalda.
”
euronews: “ Why does the character Mafalda not age, time doesn’t affect her?
She has not aged a day, she has transcended time to become eternal.
”
Quino: “ No.
I think the day when readers will rightly realise that in my drawings there is no new technology – which for me is a big unknown – then that is when this character will not be of our time and interest will be lost in her.
”
euronews: “ Since Mafalda is still valid, it seems that the world has changed very little in the past 50 years.
”
Quino: “ Very little.
And it is a great deception on human behavior because it has meant that we continue to make the same mistakes and we have not progressed except in technology.
”
euronews: “ Why is the world always in this state?
”
Quino: “ I think because the economic interests took the place of ideology and political interests.
Today there is no ideology and that is very odd for a generation like mine, the generation of 68 and whose motto was power to the imagination.
All this was so beautiful and now there is nothing left.
“
euronews: “ One of the images that we still see as a headline for Mafalda is that she does not like soup.
I read that you used the soup as a metaphor of the Argentine dictatorship.
What were the experiences of you and your family there who were forced into exile in Italy?
“ .
 ~~~ Quino: “ Well, we lived there like all our compatriots, very badly.
Having to leave your country is very scary, you lose contact with your friends, family and people you love.
Today the world is full of migration so there is no need to explain the significance of what that means.
”
euronews: “ How do you see the recent evolution of South America?
”
Quino: “ I watch but I can not seem to understand what is happening.
Until five years ago I watched with a greater peace of mind. ~~~ Today I am very curious to know what will happen in the future.
”
euronews: “ And Europe?
”
Quino: “ Europe intrigues me as much as Latin America.
”
euronews: “ We shouldn’t forget of course you go between Buenos Aires and Madrid and this makes you a privileged spectator.
”
Quino: “ Europe, which was a cultural beacon for Latin American, is currently in a stage where we do not know if the European Union is finished, or if it will integrate more or disintegrate completely.
There are countries who seek independence which I find very serious, countries no, I mean regions.
Because I believe that in this time of uncertainty we must unite rather than separate.
”
euronews: “ Returning to Mafalda’s soup.
Now what is Mafalda’s soup, where is the soup of all evil?
”
Quino: “ Mafalda’s soup, today some of it would be the rise of terrorist groups that the West does not know how to handle because the West has never prepared enough to know other cultures well enough, how to treat them and how act in relation to them.
”
euronews: “ How do you see the world Quino?
”
Quino: “ I read the Bible frequently to look for ideas for my cartoons though I’m not religious and I never read with a religious spirit.
I think not only have countries committed the same mistakes in the last two centuries, but that human beings have a tendency to wreck what is working well.
”
euronews: “ What do you believe in?
”
Quino: “ In the human mind, even if there are periods in which humanity takes retrograde steps such as during Nazism and fascism.
Sometimes it succeeds with good things but then after it has the capacity to spoil everything.
”
</text>
<text>
Over the last 25 years, Austrian film director Michael Haneke has established himself among the most important creative talents in cinema history.
From his early work to this year’s foreign language Oscar-winner, ‘Amour’, he has forged a unique style, which is sober and realistic, and delves into our secret fears and taboos.
Haneke has just received the Prince of Asturias Prize.
Anja Bencze spoke with him in the northern Spanish city of Oviedo.
 ~~~ Anja Bencze, euronews: “ Michael Haneke, the list of prizes you’ve won fills pages – European, German, Golden Globes, two Palmes d’Ors, an Oscar, and now the Prince of Asturias Prize.
Which of these has brought you the most pleasure?
”
Michael Haneke, Film Director: “ I’m thrilled with each one, because I want the films to be seen, and awards always make people curious, and they watch them.
I’m always delighted.
And, of course, if it’s an important prize, you feel that even more, when you have a lot.
But that’s not to say I’m not pleased with a small festival prize.
It’s a great pleasure, better than the alternative.
”
euronews: “ ‘Amour’, a film about love, the end of life and fearing death won you several awards, and a career climax.
The Oscar ceremonies were a few months ago.
With hindsight, how do explain such a success with a film that isn’t mainstream, since it deals with a subject that everyone tries to avoid?
”
Haneke: “ I think it has to do with when the film came out.
I always say that it wouldn’t have had the same success ten years earlier, that’s sure.
Because this subject was drawn to the centre of public attention by the media, as one we should talk about.
But it was also a stroke of luck.
That as much for me as for my producers at the start, when I told them I wanted to do a film about this, we said it’s poison at the box office: we’d be better off not doing it.
But since it interested me, as I was confronting this problem in my private life, I forced the decision, and in the end everyone was satisfied.
It’s marvellous it got done.
”
euronews: “ Your films are loved and feared, since they bring the viewer face to face with fears and secrets.
Violence is an important subject – psychological and physical violence; do you understand that some people live it as torture?
”
Haneke: “ I can’t contradict any of that, but no one’s forced to go to the cinema.
There’s often this reference to my film ‘Funny Games’, which was somewhat known as a provocation, to show people what they expose themselves to when they watch a violent film.
Because usually in mainstream cinema violence is treated as consumer goods.
We sit in the theatre and watch what’s going on but we’re not concerned because it’s only a movie.
And that makes me furious. ~~~ That’s why I wanted to show the spectator just what he’s an accomplice to.
”
euronews: “ You’re Austrian, born in Munich, raised in Vienna – where you still live. ~~~ You’ve worked in Germany and keep making French films with French actors in French.
Why is that; where do you feel at home?
”
Haneke: “ I feel at home wherever they let me work.
Of course, it’s easier to make films in France, demanding films, I’d say – not purely commercial cinema. ~~~ It’s easier to find the money to do that in France.
Also, there are such excellent actors in France.
That’s not to say there aren’t excellent actors in Germany.
But that’s the way it is.
I was able to make one film in France because Juliette Binoche saw my Austrian films and called me up to ask if we could do something together.
I was absolutely stunned and I thought someone was playing a practical joke on me. ~~~ Then we made a film, and other opportunities came up.
Now I have a lot of friends in France and I love working there; but that doesn’t mean I don’t work in Germany and in Austria.
It also depends on the story we want to tell.
”
euronews: “ When we Google your name, there’s a Twitter account for a Michael Haneke with some pretty funny comments.
It’s a parody by a journalist fan of yours.
The account’s closed now, but it was very appreciated, with more than 20,000 followers at times.
You laugh, but you don’t really appreciate online social media.
Why not?
”
Haneke: “ No, I didn’t say that. ~~~ I laugh because I didn’t know, and then some students told me. ~~~ Then I went to look and found it funny, but that’s all.
It’s not true that I don’t like new media; quite the opposite: my new film, that I’m writing, touches on the subject a bit.
It’s just that I’m not in it constantly. ~~~ I just don’t have enough time for that sort of thing.
”
euronews: “ You’ve brought me to my next question: can you tell us a bit about your next film project?
”
Haneke: “ I can’t tell you any more. ~~~ I’ve done that too often and then had to correct myself and apologise afterwards because the film talked about something I didn’t mention.
I swore this time I’d keep quiet.
”
euronews: “ A lot of American directors at the moment are turning away from cinema to make television series.
You come from television; is this a vision of the future for you?
”
Haneke: “ If commercial cinema stays as weak as it is, it’s natural that people with slightly more intellectual ambitions look for a spot.
No one would have thought ten years ago it was possible for television to have a renaissance thanks to directors in the US who got frustrated and started making series.
I find what they’re doing is fantastic!
Partly they’re really intelligent stories, that we don’t get in American movies. ~~~ So, why not?
What happens with it all, no one can say.
Otherwise we’d already have predicted what’s happening now.
As long as they let me, I’m going to keep on working, for as long as I have ideas.
I might not have any, and then I won’t force myself.
But as long as it works and people want to see it, there’s no reason to stop.
”
euronews: “ We’ll hold you to it!
Thanks very much.
”
</text>
<text>
For the fifth consecutive year the number of forcibly displaced people worldwide has reached 42 million and aid is now at a critical level.
 ~~~ Michel Santos, euronews: ~~~ Mr.
For the 5th consecutive year there are more than 42 million forcibly displaced people throughout the world.
What can we understand from this?
António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees: ~~~ I think it’s a combination of two factors.
On the one hand there has been a multiplication of new crises. ~~~ Since the beginning of 2011, the Ivory Coast, Libya, Yemen, Syria, the Horn of Africa – Somalia – and then more recently Sudan, South Sudan and Mali.
And at the same time, old crises never seem to die: Afghanistan is still going on and on; Somalia or the Democratic Republic of Congo.
And more than 70 percent of the world’s refugees have been refugees for more than 5 years.
Michel Santos, euronews:
António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees: ~~~ The world economic crisis has made two impacts.
It’s reduced the amount of humanitarian support for people in need but it’s also triggered instability and conflict in many situations.
Michel Santos, euronews:
How is the UNHCR dealing with this? ~~~ António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees:
At present, we have three acute huge displacement crises at the same time: Syria, Sudan, South Sudan and Mali.
We are in an extremely difficult situation to have to be able to respond to the needs of so many people in dyer circumstances.
I can say that we’re witnessing human suffering on an epic scale.
Michel Santos, euronews:
Syrian refugees are arriving in neighbouring countries almost every day.
António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees:
As UNHCR we cannot have political action, but ~~~ of course we recognise there is no humanitarian solution, the solution is always political.
The problem is that if you look at what’s happening today in the world you can see that the international community has a limited capacity to prevent conflicts and a limited capacity to solve conflicts in a timely way.
Michel Santos, euronews: ~~~ The exodus of Syrian people is putting pressure on neighbouring countries.
Who is paying for assisting the refugees?
António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees:
It’s a different situation from country to country.
Turkey has assumed its responsibility and is providing protection. ~~~ In Lebanon and Jordan we are cooperating with the two governments and local authorities but also with other UN agencies: with the Red Crescent and Red Cross movement and with NGO movements, with the support of the international community – the donors of the international community – in order to provide people with the assistance they require.
I think Syria is something that everybody is aware of.
Mali is much more difficult for instance.
From a displacement point of view, there are a number of refugees and it’s double in relation to Syria.
Michel Santos, euronews:
António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees:
In Africa at the moment, there are a number of crises, but I’ll underline four: Sudan, South Sudan – there are now 190 thousand refugees from Sudan in South Sudan and Ethiopia; Somalia, one million refugees from Somalia are in Kenya, Djibouti, Ethiopia and Yemen; The Democratic Republic of Congo, probably has the worst human rights violations happening today, are happening in eastern DRC, the situation of women … rapes … it is an appallingly dramatic situation; and Mali.
If you look at what’s happening in Northern Mali, you have a rebellion in which the arms and the fighters come from Libya, and you have different rebel groups of a local, secular nature, local Islamic radical nature, the Boko Haram from Nigeria.
I do believe there is a risk of having the same crisis from Libya to Nigeria, from Mauritania to Somalia, where the impact on global peace and security would be very, very damaging.
Michel Santos, euronews:
António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees:
There has been a massive response. ~~~ Two of our sister agencies have been strongly involved: the World Food Program and UNICEF, but of course the scale of the problem is such that even with this massive response it will not be easy to fully meet the challenge, especially if donor support fails. ~~~ Michel Santos, euronews:
Is there any particular region where the refugee situation is improving?
António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees:
Now we have hope in relation to Myanmar.
Recent confrontations between the Muslim and Buddhist communities are of course a matter of great concern to us.
But peace agreements or at least ceasefires have been signed with several of the other ethnic groups that had rebellions in the country.
And we hope that in the near future, especially for the refugees that are now in Thailand, of which there are 50 thousand – we hope there will be an opportunity for them to be able to go back in safety and with dignity as soon the conditions are met.
Michel Santos, euronews:
Climate change: is the number of refugees related to this phenomenon increasing?
António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees:
Refugees according to the legal definition are those who are fleeing conflict or persecution but the truth is that we are witnessing more and more new challenges: forced displacement due to other reasons.
Climate change is probably the main accelerator, the defining factor of our times.
Either because the environment is devastated and there are no conditions for human life to be sustained or because these factors trigger conflict and insecurity and that also makes people flee.
Michel Santos, euronews: ~~~ Some refugee camps have existed for decades – like ones in Palestine or even the Kenyan one, Dadaab.
Are there solutions or have they become permanent?
António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees:
The solution is political and I can guarantee that even if we work really well and even if assistance is properly delivered, living in a refugee camp is always a horrible thing.
Michel Santos, euronews:
Finally, as I’m Portuguese I have to ask this question: you’ve been the Prime Minister in Portugal, are you considering a return to active political life?
António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees:
Mr.
Guterres, thank you very much. ~~~ António Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees: ~~~ Thank you.
</text>
<text>
Two years ago the Colombian government entered peace talks with the FARC rebels in neutral Cuba after half a century of armed struggle.
 ~~~ Colombia’s President Juan Manuel Santos wants peace but says the post-war period will need international support.
euronews: “ You are counting on the EU’s political and financial support.
How much money are you hoping for?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ The main purpose of this visit is to seek political support that will speed up the conclusion of the peace talks.
There are two main sticking points, the most complex and difficult, where we need international support.
This international support is very important.
The other support I’m looking for on this visit is for the creation of an EU institutional fund to finance peacetime projects.
The sum is yet to be established, and I’m not yet looking for specific guarantees of financial resources.
”
euronews: “ At the recent UN General Assembly you said you were very close to agreement with the FARC.
When will it be possible?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ It’s impossible to tell, I hope at the earliest possible date.
The sooner we end the talks the more lives we’ll save and the more suffering we’ll avoid.
”
euronews: “ Do you still hope it’ll be this year?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ If I’m being realistic then, no, we won’t finish the negotiations this year, but I have the hope it will be as soon as possible.
”
euronews: “ As you said you are now at a decisive stage, so what are the remaining challenges you face?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ The hardest points remain unresolved.
The hardest by far is linked to the victims and what we call ‘transitional justice’, or the way we apply justice during this period to ensure a peaceful transition.
This is the heart of the problem in every armed conflict.
”
euronews: “ Mr. ~~~ President, have you spoken or are going to speak about specific projects during your European trip?
What are the top priorities for funding?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ Peace in Colombia will not only benefit Colombians, it will benefit the region and the whole world.
This is because there is a specific point on the agenda; the drugs trade.
We have engaged the state in co-operation with the guerrillas to replace criminal plantations with legal farming, and fight drugs barons.
“ Colombia remains the world’s number one cocaine exporter and our exports come here to Europe, and the whole world.
Imagine what that means, that the guerrillas, instead of helping these exports ally themselves with the state to wipe out the drugs trade once and for all.
There’ll also be positive effects for the climate as deforestation will be slowed, and Colombia has the world’s richest biodiversity per square metre.
”
euronews: “ Will these funds also be used to reduce inequalities?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ Of course, but that’s already a policy we are pursuing .
In the last four years the country that has reduced poverty by the greatest percentage in Latin America is Colombia.
We still have much to do but it is a fundamental objective because my vision for Colombia is a country at peace, more equal, and with better education.
”
euronews: “ Returning to the drugs trade a UN report says Colombia reduced its cocaine production by just 13 percent last year.
Plenty of people are still growing these crops.
Beyond the help the FARC can offer what measures is the government taking against the growers and dealers?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ We had some success because the big old mafias that once pressured Colombian democracy are no more.
All the bosses are in jail or in a tomb.
But the trade continues because as long as there’s demand in Europe, America, or internationally, someone will supply cocaine.
”
euronews: “ The latest news is that the FARC has demanded forgiveness for the victims.
I wanted to ask you, Mr. ~~~ President, is it right and fair that members of the FARC should be allowed into parliament and participate in political life.
Many critical voices have been raised.
” ~~~ Juan Manuel Santos: “ This is what it means to talk peace.
They will have to surrender their weapons, abandon violence, and then they can continue with politics, but by democratic means.
This is the peace process.
We will see if they win any seats in parliament, it may be part of the deal.
The goal is for them to continue with their ideals and political struggle but without violence or weapons.
”
euronews: “ One of the talks’ most sensitive points has been disarmament.
What can you tell us?
There has been talk of laying down weapons but not surrendering them?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ It’s part of the negotiations.
What is completely clear is that there is no possibility of the guerrillas remaining armed.
Continuing in politics while still armed is crossing a red line; we cannot accept that and they know it.
”
euronews: “ Will we ever see pictures of guerrillas giving up their weapons to the government?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ At the moment it won’t be to the government, but that doesn’t matter.
There are many cases of a third party participating in disarmament and ensuring weapons will never be used again We cannot have armed politics, it’s impossible and must not happen.
”
euronews: “ What would be the economic impact of such a peace in Colombia?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ Very significant economic and social benefits.
We estimate that it could add an average 2 percent annual growth.
We have Latin America’s highest growth rate, and in the first half of this year we hit 5 percent.
With peace we could reach 7.2 percent if we add the ‘peace dividend’.
But above all it’s everything that concerns development in the Colombian countryside.
Social development is vital as we have six million internally displaced people, victims, and it’s hard for them to survive out of their environment.
”
euronews: “ Where are you in your talks with the ELN (National Liberation Army. ~~~ Spanish: Ejército de Liberación Nacional)?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ We are having secret talks to see if we can, as we have done with the FARC, identify points in an agenda around which we could find an agreement to end the conflict.
”
euronews: “ Do you believe that could end up with a single peace process integrated with a FARC agreement?
”
Juan Manuel Santos: “ Yes, that could happen and I want it to happen.
”
</text>
<text>
Buzz Aldrin is one of the original men on the Moon.
In July 1969 he and Neil Armstrong set foot on the lunar surface for the first time, taking a giant step for mankind in the process.
He was a leading American astronaut throughout NASA’s Apollo programme, and now, aged 83 his enthusiasm for human space exploration remains strong.
 ~~~ In his latest book ‘Mission to Mars’ Aldrin outlines his vision for the permanent human settlement of Mars. ~~~ 
Jeremy Wilks, euronews: “ When you think about Mars, why send men to Mars?
Given that it’s expensive, it’s dangerous, the robot missions that have gone there – Curiosity is there at the moment doing a good job – the ExoMars mission from Europe is going to go and search for life, so why bother sending humans?
Buzz Aldrin, NASA astronaut: “ I have no doubt that humans will go to Mars.
And I feel that America has led so many things in space – we have invested so much, and we have a lot to gain – that America could and should be the nation that should lead the settlement of Mars.
 ~~~ “ And I don’t mean just to go and visit once and then come back.
Unless we are able to commit to a permanent growing settlement, then I don’t think just going there with humans and coming back is worth doing. ~~~ 
“ The expense of planning to come back is like the people who left Europe to come to America and then to turn around and go back to Europe, it really doesn’t make any sense at all.
There weren’t any ships doing that and there probably won’t be ships coming back from Mars, because it takes a whole setup to support that.
”
euronews: “ OK, I’m a rich entrepreneur, I’ve got lots of money, I can buy you a ticket, would you like to go?
”
Buzz Aldrin: “ No, because I don’t have that youth to be able to readjust and to make a commitment to do that.
My value is more in the planning than in the execution.
”
euronews: “ Are you a big fan of the privatisation of the space industry, SpaceX etc?
Do you think that’s the right way to go?
”
Buzz Aldrin: “ Not necessarily, I think we can rely on the companies that have been around a long time, and we have to make a balance.
So I can’t say that it’s one way or the other, it’s going to be a competition to decide which is the best way.
And if I knew what the answer to that was then that would be my plan, but I don’t know what the answer is.
”
euronews: “ When it comes to humans, going into space, we’re not really made for staying there for a very long time.
Our bones start to lose mass, our muscles start to waste away, it’s not very healthy for us, the radiation environment either.
”
Buzz Aldrin: “ There are a lot of reasons for not doing something.
And if humanity had come up with all the reasons for not doing something we wouldn’t have spread across the Earth the way we have.
There’s a curiosity, and I would submit that that curiosity will put human beings on the surface of Mars.
And it is my opinion that if you put people there they should be permanently there.
But I think that history, 100, 200, 500 years, 1,000 years, will certainly record the time when human beings left the planet Earth to permanently occupy another planet.
When?
I think the time is now, and it can be now.
”
euronews: “ We have to talk about going to the Moon, your personal experience of going to the Moon.
Now, looking back over those decades, what are the strongest memories that come out to you now from that personal experience of being there on the surface of the Moon?
”
Buzz Aldrin: “ You’re asking a very personal question and I’l give you a very personal answer, and that is a great pride and a great good fortune to have come along in my career, to have been a part of a great team effort that resulted in success.
Six out of seven times we landed successfully.
I wanted to be a part of that and I was a part of that, so my personal feeling is of great gratefulness for having somehow been in a position to have been given the opportunity to be on that first landing.
That’s a marvelous experience for a little kid that grew up in New Jersey.
So I’m very thankful, and I asked the whole world to give thanks once we successfully landed.
”
</text>
<text>
Cécile Kyenge has been the Italian minister in charge of integration since the end of April.
Despite that – or perhaps because of it – she made headlines around the world when she became the target of racial attacks after her appointment.
The abuse came from the highest levels. ~~~ The vice-president of the senate – a member of the Northern League – compared her to an orangutan.
She has received death threats, insults, and bananas were thrown at her at a rally.
Born in the Democratic Republic of Congo 49 years ago, Cecile Kyenge arrived in Italy in 1983 to study medicine.
She had hoped for a scholarship, which she didn’t get straightaway.
So, for a year, she lived in Italy illegally, and to fund her studies she did a variety of jobs.
She was a model student, and sailed through her studies.
In 1994, she married an Italian engineer and became a full Italian citizen.
Euronews reporter Cecillia Cacciotto spoke with Cécile Kyenge and began by asking: “ After these racist attacks where you were the target, you are the best-known Italian minister in the world.
How have you coped with all of that?
”
Cécile Kyenge replied: “ It’s not easy.
Since my appointment I have suffered racist attacks every day.
I don’t consider these to be attacks on me personally, but rather attacks on the institution that I represent.
“ At the same time, it is a major experience.
This difficult part of my life is always in my mind.
My goal is always the same – to support others.
”
euronews: “ You chose Italy because you loved the country.
As a minister, have you found Italy to be more backward?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ Many things happening today are not due to the fact that Italy is racist, but because Italy is experiencing a time of change, which has not been supported by good policies or communication that explain the phenomenon of migration, but most of all by education based on Italian history.
”
euronews: “ You have received the full support of the government and the full support of Prime Minister Letta and President Napolitano.
Did you expect anything more?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ That is a difficult question.
This is the first time that Italy has had a minister from abroad, so it’s the first time that Italy has faced this problem.
”
euronews: “ Would have wanted the vice-president of the senate to resign?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ That’s not for me to say … .
”
euronews: “ I’m not saying ‘Minister Kyenge’ but you, Cecile Kyenge, would you have liked that?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ I would have liked … but in the end it was his decision … nobody should impose that.
Change starts like this.
Someone takes a decision, but can reverse it.
”
euronews: “ Are Italians racist?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ There are some, but not everyone is racist, otherwise I would not have had the opportunity to live the life that I have.
”
euronews: “ Have you ever regretted taking the job of integration minister?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ No, never, not even for a moment.
”
euronews: “ Have you ever thought of leaving the government?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ No, there are always people who take things forward, but no-one should be put ahead of the cause.
Everything should be sacrificed for the cause, sometimes even yourself.
”
euronews: “ Your appointment is very symbolic – the danger is that it remains just symbolic – because your ministry is a ministry without portfolio.
Do you think that could be an obstacle, given the limited means at your disposal?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ No, I think that sometimes changes can be made with few resources.
Sometimes you can bring about change by working properly between ministries.
”
euronews: “ The right for children of immigrants born in Italy to have Italian nationality, and decriminalising clandestine immigration are your priorities.
Three months after taking over, what have you done?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ Children born to couples living in Italy for 3-5 years are born in the same hospitals, go to the same schools and the same sports halls as other Italian children.
They’ve already begun a life that’s different to their parents.
It is a facility to access citizenship.
That is the question the government is working on today.
Almost 20 proposals of law have been presented at the ministerial level.
My ministry has worked on simplifying the procedure to obtain nationality.
Among the measures, there is the possibility to prove that you live legally in the territory, not only with a residence permit, but also with other documents … like being on a school roll for example.
”
euronews: “ Italy is capable of great gestures of generosity, but at the same time Italian immigration policies are often subject to strong criticism and complaints at a European level.
What is Italy’s true face?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ Italy at the moment is trying to change the face of its migration policies, thanks also to the approach that my ministry is using to deal with certain problems.
The fact that we have an Integration Ministry is a key point for the country.
”
euronews: “ Do you think that Italy is having to deal with the influx of immigration on its own?
Is the absence of a European immigration policy a problem?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ The fact that Italy is alone is down to the European legislation, which says that a citizen who arrives in Italy, for example, must ask for asylum in Italy.
That’s what we have to change.
If someone arrives in Italy they are in the Schengen area of free movement.
That’s the issue we must work on, to resolve these problems with a different approach.
”
euronews: “ What kind of approach do you envisage?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ Quite simply, to respect the Schengen area.
”
euronews: “ After the first 100 days of the Letta government, many people don’t think it will last.
The prime minister is confident though.
Is that a feeling shared by members of the government, or not?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ Yes, we share that optimism.
Some thought that we would not even reach 100 days!
Now, we’ve passed 100 days, and that’s an important step.
”
euronews: “ Do you look back fondly on your former life in medicine?
”
Cécile Kyenge: “ Yes, and this is my first chance to say hello my patients.
”
</text>
<text>
Recent events in Ukraine, notably Russia’s annexation of Crimea, have reopened questions about the future of Transnistria.
 ~~~ The tiny pro-Russian region, which is home to about half a million people, broke away from Moldova in 1992 after a short but bloody civil war.
Euronews’ Hans von der Brelie spoke to Yevgeny Shevchuk, the man who in 2011 was elected as leader of Transnistria (the constitutional term is ‘President of Transnistria’ although the republic is yet to to be recognised internationally) about where he believes the region’s future lies.
euronews: ‘‘Mr Shevchuk, on the wall over there is a photo of President Putin and behind me there’s a painting of the Kremlin: Are we on Russian or Moldovan soil?’‘
Yevgeny Shevchuk:
‘‘We are on Transnistrian territory … and there is also the photograph of the Russian patriarch.’‘
euronews: ‘‘Are you worried that the turmoil in neighbouring Ukraine could spill over to Moldova?’‘
Shevchuk: ‘‘We are very worried about what is going on in Ukraine but we are hopeful this will not have an impact on us.’‘
euronews: ‘‘What is your message for the government in Kyiv?’‘
Shevchuk: ‘‘Stop using force!’‘
euronews: ‘‘Moldova is in the process of signing a free trade agreement with the European Union.
How will this affect Transnistria?
Shevchuk: ‘‘Generally, the signing of this agreement will have a negative economic impact on us because we did not participate in the negotiations.
Of course there are certain positive elements with this free trade deal but there are a lot more negative aspects.
That’s why, on the whole, we think that the outcome is unfavourable.
Throughout the talks we made it clear to everybody about the bad elements of this agreement and we continue to point them out but it doesn’t seem to be enough.’‘
euronews: ‘‘Why don’t you simply try to work towards reunifying Transnistria and Moldova in order to overcome such problems?’‘
Shevchuk: ‘‘Well, reunification would be a good idea if there weren’t any conflicts of interest between Transnistria and Moldova.
Of course, the people of Transnistria must also want to be reunited with Moldova, but that is not the case, quite the opposite.
At the moment the best solution would be what one could term a ‘‘civilised divorce’ with Moldova.
After that, Transnistria would have a better chance of external economic growth.’‘
euronews: ‘‘Does this mean that you completely rule out any reunification with Moldova?
Yes or No?’‘
Shevchuk: ‘‘The definitive answer to this question should come from the people of this country rather than the president, and they clearly expressed this in a recent referendum.
It is clear the people do not want reunification with Moldova.’‘
euronews: ‘‘You want to join Russia.
By doing that, don’t you risk destabilising the region, turning a cold conflict into a hot one.
Don’t you risk war and bloodshed?’‘
Shevchuk: ‘‘Our first goal, our top-priority is independence and international recognition.
That is the first thing.
We want the will of the Transnistrian people to be fully taken into account.
Of course, there are different countries in the world which have different views.
Some of these countries might think that using force is the answer to this issue.
In the 21st century I don’t think that is a solution.
Nowadays we should solve problems at the negotiating table and we should also respect the will of the people of this country.’‘
euronews: ‘‘It is claimed armed men from Transnistria crossed into Ukraine, taking part in riots in Odessa.
Can you confirm this?
Do you know anything about these agent provocateurs.’‘
Shevchuk: ‘‘This information is false.
It was spread by the mass media in Ukraine and by some Ukrainian authorities.
I had a meeting with the Ukranian ambassador to Moldova and with Ukraine’s special representative who is involved in the talks between Moldova and Transnistria- and both officially denied militants from Transnistria had taken part in unrest in Odessa.’‘
euronews: ‘‘The European Parliament has described Transnistria as a hub for organised crime, smuggling and human trafficking.
This report was published during the term of office of Mr Smirnov, your predecessor. ~~~ Has anything changed?
Or is Transnistria still struggling to deal with the same problems?’‘
Shevchuk: ‘‘Regarding people smuggling, this kind of phenomena exists in many countries in the world including those with well managed borders.
Transnistria has been accused of weapons smuggling and human trafficking.
We’ve heard those insinuations before and we still hear them today.
But I must officially declare the Transnistrian state is not involved in these kinds of smuggling activities.
Such rumours are spread with the aim of generating fear inside EU countries to push them to intervene in Transnistria to solve this smuggling problem.’‘
euronews: ‘‘Do you know how many passports Russia has handed out in the region in the last few years and can you tell me where your passport comes from?’‘
Shevchuk:’‘There are about 200,000 Russian citizens living in Transnistria.
In fact, it is possible to have multiple citizenship.
The Parliament has adopted a law which allows the people of Transnistria to have multiple citizenship.
I want to add that I am a citizen of the Russian Federation but I am NOT a citizen of Moldova … And if a “ citizen of the world ” passport existed, I would be glad to get one.’‘
</text>
<text>
The current economic crisis has been blamed on many factors – from high street banks to government finance departments, from risky trading to uncontrolled borrowing.
FxPro is a company which trades currencies across the world.
We asked them for their opinion.
FxPro advertises on Euronews and other television channels.
Ali Sheikholeslami:
“ How would you say the economic downturn has impacted FxPro’s volumes and its overall performance? ~~~ ”
Charalambos Psimolophities, FxPro:
“ I don’t think the downturn plays an important role in FX trading volumes.
What is important when trading FX is volatility in the market.
The more volatility, the more trading volume you see coming in.
In the last six months, the market has been quiet.
It has nothing to do with the economic downturn, it’s more to do with the relationship to uncertainty whether euro or the USD will be the dominant currency in the coming years.
Ali Sheikholeslami:
“ Would you say because of the financial crisis your retail clients have been taking more risks, or have they been acting more conservatively? ~~~ ”
Charalambos Psimolophities, FxPro:
“ In the FX industry there is change on a daily basis.
In general, they have been behaving in a conservative way, however during times of economic uncertainty like all that is happening with the Greek economy and the euro problems it makes the clients’ trading behaviour a bit more aggressive so on one side you see them being more conservative during the month but when there is important news coming you see them acting more aggressively in the market. ~~~ ”
Ali Sheikholeslami:
“ FxPro has moved onto an agency model.
What does it mean?
” ~~~ Charalambos Psimolophities, FxPro:
“ A magic word: you align your interest with the interest of your clients.
The difference with the agency model is that you trade with the client, for the client, as opposed to the market maker that you have an inherent conflict of interest: you make money when your client loses money and you lose money when your client makes money.
There is a big difference between the agency model and the market making model. ~~~ ”
Ali Sheikholeslami:
“ How sophisticated are your retail clients?
Do they have any trading experience?
Do you check their backgrounds before opening an account for them? ~~~ ”
Charalambos Psimolophities, FxPro:
“ We do check their background.
They are becoming much more knowledgeable day by day.
We are trying to assist them in every possible way through education, webinars, online libraries that they can read and learn more about FX trading.
I think the pattern is that over the coming years the people will become much more knowledgeable.
This is the beauty of the agency model.
With the agency model you align your interests with your clients’.
You want them to trade for a much longer period, you want them to be winning their trades, since they will be staying with you for a much longer period of time.
The plan for the next couple of months will be to provide them with much more education, give them much more tools that will make their trading experience much more profitable, provide them with algorithmic trading tools, basically the pattern these days is that computers do everything.
Psychology is something that changes constantly.
By putting the strategy of trading into an algo trading tool, you remove the psychology from the trading pattern.
The client will be much more profitable.
The problem is that small clients try to be good traders, but because of all the news happening on a daily basis and so many swings in the currency market, very easily they might make big losses, which we are working very hard in reversing this trend and making our clients much more profitable.
Ali Sheikholeslami:
“ But you will agree that forex market, forex trading is extremely risky and if a person like me, who has no background, I’m probably doomed to lose everything.
Is that true?
” ~~~ Charalambos Psimolophities, FxPro:
“ I will totally disagree.
It’s not the forex market that is risky, it is the use of leverage.
Currency in general is much less volatile than stocks or indices.
Because you are using leverage, a 1% move in the currency market by using 100 times leverage will translate to 100% move, either against or for you.
It’s the use of leverage that’s making the FX market more risky and not the market as such.
If people are able to use the appropriate leverage during different periods of times, let’s say in extreme volatility the lower leverage you use the better, because if the market goes against you by 1% and you are exposed 100 times more than your actual capital, then you will be wiped out with your 1% move, or you might double your money.
</text>
<text>
Europe’s economy is weak and Russia’s is benefiting from higher energy prices.
What does that mean for the future of their relative economies? ~~~ 
Euronews put that question to First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov as he visited Berlin for the 60th anniversary of Eastern Committee of German Economy. ~~~ 
He is the most senior member of the Russian cabinet besides the prime minister, responsible for the federal budget and economic policies.
Andrei Beketov, euronews: “ We are speaking in Berlin, the capital of Europe’s most powerful state.
But Germany’s recent economic statistics have been pretty dismal.
At the same time Russia is getting stronger.
What is its strategy towards the weakening West?
Is it trying to take ground left by the West? ~~~ ”
Igor Shuvalov: “ We cannot say that the West is weakening.
For many years – perhaps a few years – we will live in a rather unstable situation when sometimes the West will be stronger, sometimes it will be weaker.
Russia, I hope, during that time will be getting stronger, because we have the opportunities to do that.
But of course, the starting point is quite different.
For example, the German economy, which is already powerful and well-developed, is facing completely different problems to the Russian economy.
We Russians are in a period of transformation.
And of course, we have a lot of challenges ourselves, we need to make the economy work and grow. ~~~ 
“ But for us, the Russians, we have a very clear road map: we have to work with the European Union and at the same time with the Asia-Pacific region.
We want to build a common economic area, which will be based on common economic rules and regulations.
But at the same time, those countries will maintain their political independence while building common political institutions.
It will be like the European Union with its euro-bureaucracy in Brussels.
Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus together are setting up a common economic zone.
And from January 2015 we will launch the Eurasian Economic Union.
At the same time looking to the East, Russia will begin a very powerful programme of development, promoting its exports and creating a free trade zone with some states.
In particular, we are starting negotiations with Vietnam.
euronews: “ It seems that Russia is looking more and more to the East … ”
Igor Shuvalov: “ That is not the case.
Russia is a European state.
Our territory is in Eurasia, but our civilization is European.
The European Union accounts for over 50 per cent of our exports.
We are not reducing but developing this cooperation.
However given the vastness of Russia and its position mostly on the Asian continent, we need to develop trade with Asian countries.
euronews: “ In the current crisis, is Russia using its economic strength to help Europe? ~~~ ”
Igor Shuvalov: “ Russia is a very attractive consumer market.
For Germany, for example, it would be impossible to fully realise its export potential without Russia.
With our cooperation and trade with Germany, we actively help Germany, as well as the European Union.
Our foreign exchange reserves for the most part remain in euros.
Therefore, in every area of cooperation between states, governments and businesses, we provide strong support for the development of European business and Europe’s economy – I’ve no doubt about that.
euronews: The current presiding nation of the European Union, Cyprus, has asked for specific financial support.
Are you going to respond to this request?
Igor Shuvalov: “ Our Finance Ministry is considering this application.
We don’t have special funds to support the European economy, but we’re willing to consider such an application.
And of course it must be done in cooperation with the European Union.
I don’t think in the current difficult conditions these kinds of problems can be solved on a bilateral bases.
euronews: “ In the big Eastern powers – China, especially – the state plays a major role in the economy.
Is that a problem for Russia?
If there is state domination does that makes Russia stronger or weaker?
Is Russia’s state capitalism working? ~~~ ”
Igor Shuvalov: “ We have no state capitalism, that is a stereotype.
We are privatising state property, privatising our companies.
More than ever, the government is determined to support business and improve the climate for business.
euronews: “ With Rosneft acquiring TNK-BP, isn’t that a strengthening of state control in such an important area? ~~~ ”
Igor Shuvalov: “ No, it isn’t!
To begin with we have not yet seen the final terms of the deal, we have not been told about them.
We just saw the general outline.
But if this general outline is implemented in the final deal, it would means the consolidation of the assets of Rosneft and further privatisation of Rosneft itself.
And as a result of this transaction BP – one of the shareholders of TNK-BP – should become one of the major shareholders of Rosneft.
Basically it means consolidation of assets within the company, which will become the biggest oil producer and the company with the largest capacity, with the greatest known reserves.
In this case, BP becomes a shareholder, and it is very important for corporate governance, and the process of privatisation.
If Rosneft were just buying those assets, then I would agree with your conclusion.
But it didn’t do just that.
It is very complex and a good deal.
The most important thing is to make sure that it is implemented precisely in those terms that were announced. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Gazprom is another commodity producer.
Now the European Commission is investigating its dominant role.
This gas producer is suspected of forcing its customers, to sell to those who Gazprom wants … ”
Igor Shuvalov: “ My attitude to this is simple: that all these (EU) actions are being taken for one purpose only – to make Gazprom reduce the price of the gas it supplies.
But if you get a very low price of gas, then production will begin to decline, then, in later, that will lead to a sharp increase in the prices of these kind of raw materials.
” ~~~ euronews: “ You have been the number two in the government for the past 12 years while Vladimir Putin was president and prime minister, now, your boss is Dmitry Medvedev; is the atmosphere and the government’s direction changing? ~~~ ”
Igor Shuvalov: “ Of course, they are changing.
Something has gone out of the government that was inherent in the person of Putin, something has come in connected with the personal approach of Medvedev.
But the main thing remains, that is that the government needs to work fast, to take care of the country, to keep on the modernisation path … ”
euronews: “ I see, modernisation remains … ”
Igor Shuvalov: “ Modernisation remains – the modernisation of public, political, social and economic life.
If we work better for our people, it is to our advantage – if not, then we will be “ corrected ” by the voters.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Social needs are the priority with a lot due to be spend on that.
Does that mean the government is shifting to the left, or maybe towards populism? ~~~ ”
Igor Shuvalov: “ Every year the number of rich people is growing.
On the other hand, there are a lot of poor and vulnerable people.
Therefore, such a large gap between rich and poor, a lack of protection for the emerging middle class, this could create a very big problem for our potential growth and achieving the goals of modernisation.
Therefore, all the social programmes supported by Putin don’t mean that we are moving to the left or engaging in populism.
They are only aimed at creating a basis for modernisation. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
The upsurge in instability and violence in parts of Africa was high on the agenda of a conference in early April involving leaders from the continent and their European counterparts.
The EU-Africa Summit in Brussels dealt with a range of common concerns, but much of the focus was on efforts to end fighting in the Central African Republic.
The President of Mauritania, Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz, whose country holds the African Union presidency, spoke to Euronews’ François Chignac about this and other key issues affecting EU-Africa relations.
François Chignac
“ The African continent is forecast to see largely positive growth rates in the years to come.
Today the average is around 5%.
Should this new economic reality be the basis for a new relationship with the European Union? ~~~ ”
Mohahamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ Relations must be maintained but we have to improve them so that it’s win-win for both sides.
And I think that this will benefit both continents. ~~~ I believe one side still needs the other.
You know, one continent compliments the other. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ Do you think that the EU or the rest of the world understands that we’re now seeing an emerging Africa, an economic development?. ~~~ ”
Mohammed Ould Abel Aziz
“ I think they are beginning to understand, because it’s visible – an average growth of 5%.
We have to support the evolution of this world.
And we’re doing it slowly but surely. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
We really have to act now!
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ In this decade there have been enormous problems, as much in Europe as in Africa … instability, insecurity, economic crises, natural disasters, which have not allowed leaders to put their policies into practice.
But the will is there. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ The situation in the Central African Republic is very delicate.
Do you think the EU should increase its troops on the ground, or should the African Union, Africans themselves, re-establish order in the country? ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ Africans should take on this mission.
It’s true that it is our mission.
Africa is preparing to send special forces there.
A number of countries are willing to participate. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ Which countries?
” ~~~ Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ There are around ten countries willing. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ Is security one of the top priorities for you, as president of the African Union and in your dealings with the EU? ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ I think we can’t talk about development without talking about security.
We can’t invest in a region where there is instability.
It’s true that in the Sahel belt we’ve seen enormous security problems. ~~~ It’s not just recent months, it’s almost a decade.
This insecurity is largely caused by the massive presence of terrorists who’ve settled in this area and who continue to move around uninhibited.
Terrorism knows no borders. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ Every year 11 million young people enter the job market in Africa.
They don’t all find jobs and very often this problem radicalises them and pushes them into extremism. ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ All those ingredients push young people towards extremism, towards desolation, it’s effectively that … “
Francois Chignac
“ Are you as African Union president going to address these issues? ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ I’ve already addressed them.
The best way to prevent young people from falling into terrorism, is to ensure that they’re not continually excluded from the development of Africa.
We’ve got to get them qualified. ~~~ The education system has to respond to these needs.
And Africa has huge potential.
We export enormous amounts of raw materials which, processed on the ground, can enable us to create jobs, to develop and profit, and employ young people. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ The EU is often asking African countries, their leaders, to take on and give good leadership? ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ I think it’s not up to the EU to ask Africa to ensure good leadership.
I think Africans are aware of that, that a country can’t develop without democracy and good leadership, without also respect for all and integration for all.
And we can’t develop a country in which some are excluded.
I think it’s not up to the EU to tell us that, it’s a decision we must take for ourselves.
François Chignac
“ On this issue of leadership, Mr President, some question your rise to power.
How do you respond to them? ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ There were 10 candidates and Mauritania can only have one elected leader.
So the nine candidates who didn’t succeed, who didn’t go forward last time around felt frustrated.
They said the elections weren’t transparent.
But it’s always like that.
They’re not satisfied.
But there are elections next June and it’s up to them to stand in these elections that will be as transparent as previous elections. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ So you’re rather optimistic about the elections in June in your country? ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ I’m optimistic for my country.
In my country democracy is becoming as deeply rooted in the spirit of the people as in the country itself. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ There’s been criticism of the International Criminal Court from some countries and from the African Union before you took the presidency. ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ There’s a perception that Africans have of the Court, because most of the people on trial are Africans.
That’s what makes Africans think it’s a court that specialises in judging Africans.
We’re discussing this problem at the movement.
It’s desirable, however, that Africans take charge, just as they should for security. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ Are you calling for an ‘African Criminal Court’? ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
I’m calling for a court … I don’t see why we send our residents to be judged abroad.
We can judge them here, we can imprison them here, we can at least do that.
We have very competent magistrates who can do it. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ Will we see and ‘African Criminal Court.’ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ That’s my greatest wish. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ Is it also the wish of other African Union countries? ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ Effectively … ”
Francois Chignac
“ Do you think Africa has become the train pulling the European Union, or could become the train? ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ I think so and wish for it.
We have the means and the ambition.
I think it’s the ambition that really counts. ~~~ ”
Francois Chignac
“ How would you summarise your hopes for the African continent in the coming years? ~~~ ”
Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ Africa for me would be prosperous, stable, secure and united.
Francois Chignac
“ And we’ll see that?
” ~~~ Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz
“ And contribute to the development of the world and play a part on the world stage, and play a role in world politics and security. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
The Ukrainian President, Petro Poroshenko, has granted an exclusive interview to euronews in Kyiv in which he calls on the West to present a united front against Russia to resolve the conflict in eastern Ukraine. ~~~ 
Sergio Cantone, euronews ~~~ “ Is the European Union united according to you in the support of Ukraine or do you expect more from them?
Because one can see some cracks in the system. ~~~ Aren’t you?
”
Petro Poroshenko, Ukrainian President
“ No, I think that until now, during this whole year, me, as the president of Ukraine, has the possibility and honour to have a floor on the European Union Council, and it was happening in June, it was happening in September, it was happening in February and all the EU leaders support Ukraine and the voices of Europe were united.
And I hope that if the European Union is dedicated to the European values the unity of the European Union can be continued.
”
euronews ~~~ “ The Minsk agreement and all the negotiations around the Minsk agreement: Is President Putin – the Russian side or even the separatist side – are these sides pushing forward an idea of a Federal Ukraine that for you is unacceptable?
”
Petro Poroshenko ~~~ “ Look, this is not a question of Putin or even a question of the president of Ukraine.
The only one who can make this decision is the Ukrainian people.
And under our legislation, our constitution, the federal status of Ukraine can be decided only with a nationwide referendum.
At the present stage almost 90 percent of Ukrainians are completely against the federal status.
Why?
Because we are a unitarian state in we do not accept any form of pressure on Ukraine.
And me, as the president of Ukraine are all the time ready to declare the referendum and will follow – and this is a democratic tradition – will follow the results of this referendum.
”
euronews ~~~ “ Stopping the war in exchange of the federalisation – is this what they want?
”
Petro Poroshenko ~~~ “ First of all we do not accept any ultimatum.
Second, the way of development of our country will be decided by the Ukrainian people.
Third, we are now, together with our European, American and the world partners (committed) to defending freedom, democracy and the independence of my state – and we do not allow anybody to blackmail us.
”
euronews ~~~ “ Don’t you think that in order to comply with what you are saying, there is the need to bring peacekeepers in the field in Donetsk and Luhansk Oblast (regions)?
”
Petro Poroshenko
“ My parliament support my proposal.
Not only for the law for the special status or the self governance in Donetsk and Luhansk regions.
Not only the map with the line dedicated in the Minsk memorandum from 19 September, but also for the peacekeeping request: a statement to the United Nations Security Council and to the United Nations Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon, for opening the discussion for inviting peacekeepers in Ukraine.
Where do we need these peacekeepers?
First, on our border, because the border is a key element of the sovereignty and we need peacekeepers to close these borders to stop supplying troops, ammunition and weapons to Ukrainian territory, very simple.
And second, the peacekeepers alongside the buffer zone, with the touch line which was set here just to guarantee peace and stability.
”
euronews ~~~ “ The problem is that it is very difficult to bring peacekeepers in the field without the consensus of the other side … ”
Petro Poroshenko ~~~ “ No, we don’t have any other side, this is the territory of Ukraine.
This is the territory of Ukraine.
And we hate the idea that any other state will decide if the United Nations’ peacekeepers should be there or not.
And we are very much interested, that it should be also a possibility for the European Union police mission – or in the United Nations Security Council, peacekeeping mission would be mostly represented by the European Union.
We trust them, these are our partners.
And we think this is a very effective way to solve the question.
”
euronews ~~~ “ Do you feel a commitment within NATO and the EU in this sense?
”
Petro Poroshenko ~~~ “ Yes I think… ”
euronews ~~~ “ Did you get support?
”
Petro Poroshenko
“ Yes we have support, we have a confirmation, the only thing is that the… Look, what is the problem?
After the Crimea’s annexation and after the occupation of Donbas, the post-war security system in the world, the global security system, are not working, why is it happening?
Because unfortunately one of the permanent members of the Security Council of the United Nations became an aggressor, and that’s why that veto right would be used against the peacekeepers.
And that’s why we would need to have that discussion the same way that we have in Minsk, that would be a unanimous decision, to have peacekeepers.
And there is no argument for anybody to be against that.
”
euronews ~~~ “ One of the most important elements after the Maidan revolution, in order to give stability to this country, was to make an effective war against corruption.
What are you doing?
”
Petro Poroshenko
“ War is not an excuse for not making reform: fighting against corruption, attracting the most famous international advisers for creation of an anti-corruption bureau, the responsibility now on ministers, prosecutor-general, top officers in the police, for the corruption charges and presented in transparent manner.
This is the only way how we can win the trust of the people in this difficult time.
The building up of the independent court system, remove all the immunities from members of parliament, from the judges, because everybody should be equal before the law.
”
euronews ~~~ “ But in order to implement this set of reforms, economic and against the corruption, the country needs to get out from this post-Soviet system, framework… ” ~~~ Petro Poroshenko
“ The person who is involved in the corruption don’t have any umbrella anymore and they understand sooner or later, better sooner, he will be responsible.
Oligarchs are not making decisions about what will be the development of the country and I am absolutely sure that we live now in a different country, in a free and democratic Ukraine which was created in Maidan during the revolution for dignity.
Because of the fact that thousands of people are giving their lives for the rights of Ukraine, for making reforms and for being in Europe, this is a very high responsibility, the responsibility of the president, responsibility of the government, responsibility of the parliament, responsibility of all in Ukraine.
We are together, we are one country, one nation, a European nation.
”
</text>
<text>
George Papandreou was the leader of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (Pasok).
In 2011 the former prime minister found himself in uncharted waters as he battled for his political survival as Greece fought a debt crisis and its future in the eurozone.
His decision to call a referendum on a EU rescue package was considered a dangerous move by his critics.
euronews: “ Last week saw violent demonstrations by the Greek and Spanish citizens, who are facing budget cuts and further austerity measures by their respective governments, find themselves in a whirlpool of financial suffering with no end in the horizon. ~~~ 
“ In the case of Greece, the so called Troika will have to decide if the country has done well enough to receive another tranche of financial help, but the Greek are well behind their qualifying programme.
 ~~~ I am with George Papandreou, the former Prime Minister of Greece.
Welcome to Euronews, now how do you assess the current situation in Greece?
” ~~~ George Papandreou: “ First of all I would disagree that we are behind the programme.
I believe that this coalition government will come up with a package which will be acceptable with great sacrifices from the Greek people, of course and painful sacrifices, but will be acceptable to our creditors and to our partners in the European union, but under the deficits and debts, is this problem of the need for reform, for change to make our economy sustainable.
So, I have said from the very beginning, we need to have the time to make the reform because that is what in the end will make us sustainable.
Just cutting , is going to be painful and it is not going to give all the results necessary.
euronews: “ But, this requires time and time is not on your side.
You see, already after two years there is a 30 billion Euro gap, the economy is not doing well, and extra financial help by Europe has proved not helpful either.
In short, governments say Greece is no longer a liability, it’s an impossibility. ~~~ ”
George Papandreou: “ I would disagree, because actually we were not given time.
Two years when I was prime minister, there is a very short time to reform.
To cut yes … we did something which has not been done by any other country: 6.5% budget deficit cut is a record in the Eurozone.
No other country has done so much.
There are also other major problems that have occured because of the problems of the Euro.
Had many of the decisions we made today, in the last few weeks, the last few months in Europe, in the ECB, had they been taken in 2010, we never would have the contagion, and I believe strongly we would have contained the Greek problem to a much smaller amount of money. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Here, we have two problems: that is the problem of the government performing properly, and it hasn’t … and then secondly there is the people.
There is absolutely no guarantee to the EU governments that by further financial help to Greece, the problem will be solved, and the Greek people can only take so much. ~~~ ”
George Papandreou: “ First of all, I agree with you that the Greek people can only take so much.
The pressure is very high and the pain is very strong.
I think that there has been stereotyping about Greece which is wrong.
Greeks, for example, are not the laziest.
We worked hardest in the European Union according to OECD figures.
I give you on very small example but very important.
Everything, every expenditure in Greece is now on line.
Everyone around the world can check what expenditures we have.
That we did.
That was one of the reforms, small you may say, but very crucial.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Yes, but you see, there is a difference between coming up with policies for reform, and putting them into practice.
You are talking about transparency, now a number of officials, top officials in Greece are now under investigation for corruption .
A number of those served in your party and in your government under your management.
These things the European governments find difficult to digest and to come to terms with.
George Papandreou: “ I certainly began through transparency.
If there are cases, they must go to the court, I don’t want to judge persons because they may be innocent of what they are being accused, others may be guilty.
I have called for absolute transparency and justice, and we are changing this.
Tell me, if you are living in a country where there is uncertainty about whether you will move to another currency, you don’t invest, you don’t consume, the banks don’t lend, foreign investors don’t come.
That is why there is recession.
That is why there are many difficulties.
That is not only a Greek responsibility. ~~~ That is very much a European responsibility.
euronews: “ The problem started with Greece to begin with … ”
George Papandreou: “ The problem started in 2008 at the crash of Wall Street where the banking system had made terrible fraudulent activities around the world and that of course brought out some of the weak links in the Euro and many other countries.
I say we first have our own responsibility to make our country better, but we have a problem but we are not the problem though.
euronews: “ Mr.
Papandreou, the Troika and European governments, look at hard figures and facts.
They see that despite your promises, your economy is shrinking.
They say how long can we support this country?
You see, they have no trust in what you say.
” ~~~ George Papandreou: “ We have improved a lot.
No other country had cut the deficit so much, but it takes time.
But this is also a partnership.
This is a partnership where the problems of the Euro is also hitting us.
It will be a tragedy for Greece if we leave and I would say it would be a tragedy for the Euro because there will contagion and this will affect the whole region; it will affect the Arab Spring, it will affect our relations with the Middle East, it will affect our relations with Turkey, with Russia, we will lose much of our potency as Europeans, but it will also affect the economies of Europe and create massive unemployment and recession around the world. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ In two years time which is not a long time, if they look at your performance and they come to the conclusion that you are incorrigible, then would you consider an exit package [from Europe]?
George Papandreou: “ First of all, I am against an exit package and I think that we have shown more than anyone else that we can make reform.
We have made major changes.
It is a huge effort we have made and it has been compounded with difficulties because of this structural problems of the Euro, because you cannot have one country in the Euro which is credit worthy and the other country not credit worthy.
This is where Europe has to come in.
Not Spain alone, not Greece alone, not Portugal alone.
I don’t care if they are conservative or socialist, they are trying to reform their countries.
And the people are making sacrifices so let’s protect them, let’s protect them … ”
Euronews: “ By cutting out their pensions? ~~~ ”
George Papandreou: “ Well, that is why I am saying, we have to make the adjustment, a more mild one.
We had to iron this out, we are still doing this, and much has changed in Greece, but the real problem was the problem of the governance. ~~~ 
“ For example, looking at the question of tax havens, there is a lack of a system which collects taxes in an efficient way.
I have put on the table many times the question of tax havens, the question of tax evasion.
 ~~~ “ One of our major problems in Greece is not the average Greek tax evading, it is that many of the richer – not only in Greece but in other countries – can take their money out into tax havens .
That is not the question of national law.
We are talking about estimated 21 trillion dollars in tax havens around the world and we are looking for a few billions in Greece so let us look at some of the systemic problems.
euronew: “ Mr.
Papandreou, how do you realistically see the future of Europe given all these various voices, differences, divisions, nationalist ideas?
George Papandreou: “ I think you made this very important point here.
I would say, Europeanise globalisation rather than having Europe become a globalised anarchic if you like and a splintered continent assimilated by a globalised economy.
We need to move for further integration.
I believe there is a consciousness now in Europe that this is a wider issue , there are problems in countries but we can sit together, solve them and be a success as a European Union. ~~~ ” ~~~ euronews: George Papandreou, thank you.
</text>
<text>
As Single Market Month draws to a close, European Commissioner Michel Barnier took part in a one-hour public debate with European citizens.
 ~~~ During the debate, he responded to questions on topics such as employment, social rights, and banks and e-commerce.
Here are some of the highlights.
Frédéric Bouchard, euronews
“ The European Union is hindered by economic stagnation and mass unemployment, which is at 12 percent in the EU, but more than 26 percent in other countries.
“ Michel Barnier, is the single market the solution to unemployment? ~~~ ”
Michel Barnier, European Commissioner
“ When we talk about the single market, we’re talking about 500 million European citizens who are consumers, and 22 million businesses, of which 80 percent are small and medium-sized enterprises – or SMEs.
“ And these consumers and SMEs have been feeling for a long time that the single market is not made for them, but rather for the big companies.
For three years I’ve wanted to reunite citizens and SMEs with the single market.
So, we’ve drawn up and presented several laws to create what I’m calling a more favourable ecosytem for consumers and SMEs.
” ~~~ euronews
“ I’m now going to move over to one of our panel members for the next question to the Commissioner.
Martin Kalani, panel member
“ Hello Mr Barnier, I’m Martin Kalani, from Bremen Germany, working as a software developper.
I want to present my idea to you.
The idea is crowdfunding for European projects. ~~~ 
“ Crowdfunding is the possibilty to raise money from people that like your idea by selling them products, profit shares, benefits before the project starts.
Will it be possible for a citizen to invest in a European project?
Could you imagine spending money for an internet-based crowdfunding platform for European projects?
” ~~~ ‘I believe in crowdfunding’
Michel Barnier
“ I believe in this type of financing, which doesn’t really go through banks, on the condition that there are safety measures and guarantees.
“ I’m currently working on a European framework for crowdfunding, to guarantee that Internet platforms designed for people’s savings are serious and secure for the people who place their money with them.
There needs to be a certain transparency for customers and good governance.
“ But, I do believe in this formula and my response is ‘yes’.
“ So, let’s discuss what we mean by ‘European projects’.
For example, crowdfunding will not be used to finance roads, buildings, or Internet networks.
But, we can finance cultural projects; or social, economic and agricultural projects … And numerous projects are in fact already financed in this way.
” ~~~ euronews
“ Marie, do we have further questions across our social networks? ~~~ ”
Marie Jamet, euronews
“ Yes, absolutely.
On the theme of social rights, someone – via euronews.com – proposed the establishment of European social minimal norms.
What do you have to say in response to this person? ~~~ ”
Michel Barnier
“ Yes, I think that we must go in the direction of stronger social foundations.
An example of this lies in the minimum wage debate that is currently taking place in Germany.
I’m ready to work on these minimal social foundations – to build on them beyond what already exists.
” ~~~ euronews
“ You often raise the subject of social economy in the competitive market.
Can you explain what this means? ~~~ ” ~~~ Ultra liberalism blamed for the crisis
Michel Barnier
“ I can explain it by opposing it to another model that we have favoured for the past 30 years, the model of ultra liberalism.
“ It’s throwing out the rule book and it’s this ultra liberalism that provoked the scandalous economic collapse and the financial crisis.
Some bankers had an ‘anything goes’ attitude, and we allowed this.
They paid themselves enormous bonuses, knowing that the taxpayers would pay the consequences.
“ The social economy in the competitive market is something different: it’s competition; it’s market economy, but with each of our countries sharing the same social basis at a European level, a social protection system, a certain redistribution of funds.
There is no sustainable economic performance without social cohesion. ~~~ ”
euronews
“ International finance has seemed truly uncontrollable over the past few years.
What lessons has the EU learnt from the 2008 financial and banking crisis? ~~~ ”
Michel Barnier
“ I think our continent implemented the most G20 recommendations after the crisis, and we went the furthest in terms of creating sound bases for the financial markets.
” ~~~ euronews
“ Could the European banking system withstand a crisis, if one were to happen today? ~~~ ”
Michel Barnier
“ We made good decisions and applied new laws.
To be more precise, if all of these laws had been voted on and passed five or six years ago, there would have been a limit of three or four banking crises.
By “ crises ” , I mean cases justifying public intervention, or the intervention of European citizens.
“ I can’t say there won’t be further crises, and we have to remain constantly vigilant.
But, equally, I can’t say that everything is in place because it takes a lot of time in parliament, and the Council of the European Union … We need two to three years to pass a law, and democracy runs more slowly than the financial markets.
But, I think that we now have the structures in place to better withstand a crisis.
” ~~~ euronews
“ European taxpayers have paid the price, and their confidence in their banks has been rocked, which brings me to our fourth panel member’s idea … ”
Kim Valentin, panel member
“ Hi Mr Commissioner.
We need better banks.
I am from Denmark, my name is Kim Valentin.
 ~~~ “ My idea is simply to rate the banks’ performance by a smiley system.
If the banks don’t comply, they get a sad smiley, and the bank authorities already have this knowledge, so it is quite easy to impose. ~~~ ”
Michel Barnier
“ I find your idea interesting and also strongly believe in a grading system.
I think we could help the Consumers Unions to put this system in place at a trans-national level within the single market.
We could support them and they could build on the rules we have created for the banking system, including new transparency measures for bank fees. ~~~ 
“ Yes, why not create a smiley system?!
In any case, I think it’s an initiative that should come from customers rather than a new bureaucratic or administrative system.
euronews
“ In 2012, e-commerce generated 312 billion euros’ worth of turnover. ~~~ Could online business be a solution to the crisis?
” ~~~ ‘I want to make e-commerce safe’
Michel Barnier
“ Yes. ~~~ I think that there is potential economic growth with e-commerce, as it only represents six or seven percent of total commerce.
However, we would have to knock down some concrete obstacles.
 ~~~ I have presented my proposals for this.
For example, we must ensure online payments are secure.Thirty percent of citizens – and I’m sure some of them are among us today – do not trust card payments.
And sometimes, they’re right to feel this way, because fraudulent transactions sometimes occur.
So, I’ve proposed a law to reinforce the security checks and rules for bank payments and for credit card companies. ~~~ “
euronews
“ Many Internet users complain of delivery problems and costs … ”
Michel Barnier
“ I’m personally very interested in the issue of the quality and price of deliveries.
A few weeks ago, I went to a very interesting meeting in Brussels, with postal workers from all over Europe and even Australia and America.
“ They decided to work together on the project of a European single market for deliveries.
They wish to lower delivery costs, which are too high; assure the security of deliveries so that they arrive on the date requested, and to also allow the return of items that have not conformed to what we ordered.
So postal workers, who are the principal players in the delivery market, are working together and have made a common charter.
I think we’ll see concrete and operational progress on this issue.
euronews
“ We can’t talk to you without asking about the next key date for European citizens. ~~~ This is of course the elections, which will take place in seven months.
“ In all likelihood, anti-Europeans will strongly progress.
What will you do to give back some energy to the European idea?
” ~~~ Shaping the future of Europe:
Michel Barnier
“ If, as it stands, Europe doesn’t suit us, we must react and make changes.
I think there are many changes to be made.
I’m not smug but I can’t accept a speech in which we say “ We cower, with every man for himself, every man behind any border.
” ~~~ “ Let’s look at the world as it stands.
There are countries such as China, the USA, Russia, Brazil, India, who don’t need anyone.
They have such big populations and resources that they are amongst the most powerful nations in the world.
“ If we want to be up there with them, we need to be there as Europeans and patriots.
That is what I’d like to say to the European citizens in the public debate, if we want to act on the world stage. ~~~ ”
To respond to people’s concerns, anguish and anger, we need jobs.
We need to reduce the crisis, find growth again and we need to debate this.
Those are my two responses.
euronews
“ The novelty surrounding the election is that each European party is going to put forward their own candidate for the post of President of the European Commission.
Is putting a name forward the key to avoiding abstention, and what is your personal ambition? ~~~ ”
Michel Barnier
“ My ambition is to do the job I do today well, so excuse me for saying nothing further on the subject.
In one way or another, I will participate in the public debate in 2014.
I can’t tell you where I will be most useful, as that will depend on my party – the European People’s Party.
They’re discussing this at the moment.
“ However, I am ready to be useful and I will be in the debate as a patriot and as a European citizen.
Yes, I think it’s a good idea to put a name forward for the appointment of the President of the European Commission, both before and during the election.
 ~~~ “ And I hope citizens will vote in greater numbers than usual.
At the same time, I hope they will vote to elect national MEPs and a President of the European Commission who align to their political choice and preference.
I think that’s democratic progress.
</text>
<text>
Two months after taking power, Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki faces multiple challenges.
His top priorities are to restore security and to solve economic and social problems in Tunisia.
 ~~~ Euronews spoke to him at the presidential palace in Carthage, where he expressed confidence for the future of Tunisia despite the impasse in which the country finds itself today.
euronews: “Dr.
Moncef Marzouki, as a human rights activist and former opponent of the Ben Ali regime, you’ve experienced exile, house arrest and prison.
Today thanks to the revolution of the Tunisian people you are president.
Political life has both difficulties and benefits.
In what ways have you now changed?”
President Moncef Marzouki:
“Nothing has changed, it’s only my surroundings.
I’ve not changed, I’m still the same, I’ve not changed my beliefs or my habits and traditions.
From all that I’ve learnt as an opponent of the problems in opposition, now I try to solve them while in power.
It is the nature of the problems that has changed and the decor.
Apart from that everything remains the same.”
euronews: “If we talk of the political situation in the country, there are currently divisions within one of the political parties, Ettakatol, which forms the ruling coalition.
Is there dissatisfaction from those within the party, also known as the Democratic Forum for Labour and Liberties, who believe the Ennahdha party is attempting to get hold of all the power?”
President Moncef Marzouki: ~~~ “What’s happening within the political parties, including within Ettakatol, is brought to me, and is part of the spirit of change that exists right now.
What we fear is that the restructuring phase will last too long or it will lead to new and undesired political situations.
What we want is a strong and stable political situation that serves the interests of the country.
All that being said, talk of divisions within the coalition is baseless.
This government is only a few months old, so divisive talk is just fabricated to sell newspapers.”
euronews: “If I may Mr President, many Tunisians believe that the partnership between the Forum and Ennahdha was formed to begin with in order to create a political balance in the country, but now it is really Ennahdha which holds political power.
Are the limited powers of the president being seen here?”
President Moncef Marzouki:
“During the formation of this coalition government, we were in a position of strength and not weakness.
We knew that Ennahdha could not govern alone.
So when we discussed the division of powers, we followed an agreement on a very clear political programme, which guarantees respect for human rights, the rights of women, the rights of children and any civil rights.
Then we determined the powers of the president and I think these are the things that require a lot of time; the president is in charge of foreign policy in consultation with the government, he is in charge of defence policy, the promulgation of laws, and I must say I am very satisfied with his powers.”
euronews: “Many Tunisians also think there is foreign intervention in the political decisions of the Tunisian authorities, and specifically from the state of Qatar.
What do you say that?”
President Moncef Marzouki:
“All I can tell you is that we take our decisions in full sovereignty. ~~~ No one intervenes in the affairs of Tunisia and not even Qatar.
The Qataris are willing to help but we do not receive orders from people, not the United States, France, Qatar or anyone.”
euronews: “Regarding the security situation in the country.
Demonstrations and strikes continue despite your calls for a social truce.
Does the government remain unable to solve the security problems that threaten the country, and is there a clear strategy to restore order?”
President Moncef Marzouki: ~~~ “There are probably some security issues following the demonstrations and protests; many of these protests are legitimate due to the suffering of people who are tired because of their social situation and we understand this.
 ~~~ “On other hand there are people who just want to make trouble.
With regard to this situation, the government follows a policy of discipline and mastery. ~~~ 
“Because we are born of the revolution we are following this so people cannot use the same methods of repression that were used before by Ben Ali, such as shooting people in the name of state sovereignty.
We reject that.”
euronews: “Regarding the economic situation in the country, what are the concrete measures that the government has taken to regain investor confidence and promote the economy? ~~~ Especially given recent economic inefficiencies.”
President Moncef Marzouki:
“We need people to understand that this government has only been in power for two months.
It needs two or three years to build a strong foundation for an economic renaissance.
The government is now laying the foundations for fundamental reforms which will see results in around five years.
That’s what people have to understand.”
euronews: Christine Lagarde, the head of the International Monetary Fund, recently visited Tunisia and said gave orders that Tunisia should work on the issue of employment and investments … ”
President Moncef Marzouki:
“ … She has not given orders.
” ~~~ euronews: “She also proposed lending money to Tunisia.
Will you once again have to be the ‘teacher’s pet’ of the IMF?
Is that the price that Tunisia, the country of the revolution, will have to pay to get out of its economic crisis?”
President Moncef Marzouki:
“No one but the Tunisian people have the right to give orders to the president and nobody but the Tunisian people can create a government.
Certainly there are financial issues but we are a country of revolution.
The economy must serve only the people.
My position is clear on that, and we refuse to take direction from anyone.
We make our decisions in full sovereignty, and to serve the interests of Tunisians.”
euronews: “You have made the decision to expel the Syrian ambassador to Tunisia in protest against the policy of repression by the regime against its civilians.
Arab countries have proposed a draft resolution condemning the Syrian regime in the UN Security Council but no Arab country has taken such action, none have returned the Syrian ambassador.
Do you not see this as double talk from these countries?”
President Moncef Marzouki:
“Faced with the savagery and repression by the Syrian regime, the question is not about the interests of Tunisia, but above all its honour.
We were the first country to have a revolution: we lead by example. ~~~ ”
“ We have our national pride and also a duty to help this country, but how can we help if we are against military intervention?
At least symbolically therefore we do not want the flag of the Baath regime to be raised in our country.
“We took this decision in honour of Tunisia and of the Tunisian revolution.
This is a message to our brothers in Syria to tell them that we support them.”
euronews:
“Mr. ~~~ President you are in favour of the departure of Bashar Assad to Russia, do you then withdraw your call for former Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali to stand trial in Tunisia?”
President Moncef Marzouki:
“If this alternative helps to stop the slaughter in Syria, I am ready to accept it, even if it goes against justice. ~~~ But I always say that the lives of thousands of Syrians are much more important than bringing this man to justice.”
euronews: “You have mentioned on many occasions the issue of partnership with the European Union, Tunisia’s largest trading partner.
What is the new Tunisian strategy in its relations with the European Union, and is there a willingness to review the agreements that several observers have said appear to be unfair to Tunisia?”
President Moncef Marzouki:
“Our relations with the European Union are strong and we seek to develop them in order to serve the interests of Tunisia.
I think there is a strong will on the other side of the Mediterranean to help Tunisia, given the importance of the Tunisian revolution.
Our prime minister has recently met with European leaders, and I will do the same on my next visit to Brussels and Strasbourg.”
</text>
<text>
In the current Russian presidential campaign – already unique with its unprecedented backdrop of civil activism – Mikhail Prokhorov definitely stands out.
He’s the only candidate to run for the Kremlin for the first time, and the only independent, without party affiliation, a very successful businessman and billionaire.
An obvious question, why dabble in politics?
Mikhail Prokhorov: ‘‘Everybody needs to develop.
Those who stop, go into retirement.
And when you understand that in business you have already achieved certain results and can’t help your country any more, you start to think of other ways of doing so.
This was why I looked into politics.
It’s right here that I can make our country better.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘So, the current campaign is just another experience for you?
Some say that the outcome has already been decided … ’‘
Mikhail Prokhorov: “On this point I categorically disagree with you.
We live in a very dynamic world.
Our society has woken up.
Politics is on everybody’s mind.
And the last two weeks of the campaign could reveal some serious surprises.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘Business and politics – aren’t you disturbed by the example of Khodorkovsky?’‘
Mikhail Prokhorov: ‘‘No, I’m not.
The country has radically changed since then.
People are no longer willing to sacrifice their personal liberty and security just for material wealth.
People demand respect.
And you can’t buy respect.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘In a few words, how does your programme differ from that of any other candidate?’‘
Mikhail Prokhorov: ‘‘The citizen must be a foundation of all State policies.
And these policies shouldn’t serve the interests of the State, but the State should serve the citizen.
Secondly – I believe we must create a single market with Europe.
Russia without Europe – and vice versa – can’t compete in a new globalised world. ~~~ It’s absolutely impossible.
And finally, I strongly believe that only a true manager with extensive experience in running large systems can lead our country into the new competent field.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘If there are only two candidates who remain and you’re left out, who would you support?’‘
Mikhail Prokhorov: ‘‘I can’t even contemplate such a scenario.
If it comes to a runoff, I will be the second candidate.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘OK, if you lose those elections, will you stay in politics?
Would you take some government post if it were offered to you?’‘
Mikhail Prokhorov: ‘‘I wouldn’t accept any post at all in the current system because its’ a monopoly.
Even Prime-Minister is a purely technical post as a proxy for the Kremlin.
So I will create my own party.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘You’ll have 6 years to do that’‘
Mikhail Prokhorov: ‘‘Not necessarily.
Firstly, there’s an election virtually every month, every year in the regions and we can take all of them.
And, after all, I don’t think that the state of Duma will last that long in the current climate of political mistrust from our citizens.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘Will you build your party from scratch or use the existing political structure?’‘
Mikhail Prokhorov: ‘‘I will build my party from scratch together with those who share my values, with our citizens who want change, and in accordance with my programme, my platform which will be constantly expanded by new ideas submitted by citizens.
Moreover, I want to build a party on a completely new basis – citizens will submit their ideas to leaders and heads of teams who will tackle those different issues.
We have to use this grassroots activism – not a single party in Russia does that, and we want to build exactly that kind of party.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘Will this be a right wing -orientated party?’‘
Mikhail Prokhorov: ‘‘It will be an efficient party.
There are challenges that our country is evidently facing, and they have to be dealt with in an efficient way.
Those efficient ways are presented in my programme, and let the citizens decide whether they think it’s a right-wing, left-wing or centrist party.
I always start with the task at hand.
And our task is: how to make our citizens rich, successful, free and ready to link their destiny and destiny of their children to Russia.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘Thank you and good luck.’‘
Mikhail Prokhorov: ‘‘Thank you.’‘
</text>
<text>
The French writer and philosopher Bernard Henri Levy is in Cannes to present his documentary on the war in Libya: “ The Oath of Tobruk ” .
He talks to euronews about his involvement with the opposition and the negotiations that preceded the international military intervention.
According to him, the successful intervention in Libya can serve as a blueprint to end the troubles in Syria.
Wolfgang Spindler, euronews: ~~~ Hello Mr.
Levy you’ve come to Cannes to present your documentary showing your role in the Libyan revolution.
Can we say then, that you are a superhero, who has changed the situation in Libya, that you’re really the superhero of the revolution?
Bernard Henri Levy: ~~~ No, I’m not a superhero!
In the film I try to relate very closely, and very modestly to what I was involved in, on the war for liberation.
It’s not a history of Libya in general, there are plenty of documentaries on Libya.
This one, stands by the story of what I experienced, what I witnessed and became a part of.
euronews: You’re Jewish, has this had an influence over your political involvement?
Bernard Henri Levy:
I am a man made up of several influences.
The influences that have shaped me, are; the great philosophers, General de Gaulle and his appeal on June 18th, the image of Winston Churchill, that I have admired since I was a child and then there’s what I discovered later on: Jewish humanism and Jewish universalism.
Altogether these things make up my humanity, my will, my revolt against injustice and my revolt against the intolerable.
It all goes together.
The fact that I am Jewish is not the issue.
At any rate, let’s say I am a Jew who has always thought it his duty to reach out to other branches of the descendants of Abraham, like the Arab or Muslim people?
I’m rather honoured to stand up for their cause. ~~~ euronews: Mr.
Levy you were a big political influence in the decision for France to launch a military intervention in Libya – if you look at how things have evolved, do you think a military intervention was the right decision?
Bernard Henri Levy:
Well, of course, military intervention was necessary.
In my film you can see that tanks were in Benghazi, Gaddafi’s tanks were in Benghazi.
Whatever happens, whatever the risks that have come after the intervention, the intervention was right.
It stopped a massacre and that was right.
I have only one regret today and that is not being able to do what I did in Benghazi, because nobody is doing it for Homs, for Daraa the massacred, Syrian cities.
The Benghazi of today is Homs.
euronews: So, can we expected a superhero in a white shirt, to solve the conflict in Syria?
You have Francois Hollande’s mobile number, do you want to use one of these boats to get there?
Bernard Henri Levy: ~~~ What can be expected … I repeat, I launched an appeal.
There are images of the village of Houla circulating on the internet.
These images, you have to see them.
More than a hundred victims – children tortured, killed in appalling conditions, our leaders should see these images, then they can decide.
I’ve seen these them, they were horrifying, I was in tears.
I wish the Russian Ambassador of the United Nations Security Council and the Chinese Ambassador; who has also regularly, since the beginning of this case, blocked all the resolutions; I want them to see these images, that is what I can do today, tomorrow we will see, today I want them to see these images .
euronews: You have insisted the Libyans take up arms to defend their cause – would you be willing to take up arms and kill for your cause?
Bernard Henri Levy:
Wait. ~~~ First, I have never encouraged anyone and the Libyans haven’t expected anyone to take up arms.
They took up arms and have documented their war.
It should not get confused.
I’ve never held a weapon in my life and I’d never have to do what they’ve had to.
You know, the subtitle of this film could be “ war without loving it ” .
The people I admire are the people who go through war without loving it.
Here, war is a horror, a love of war is obscene.
Levy, the revolution in Libya is over, what do think Libya’s political future will be? ~~~ Bernard Henri Levy:
As in all democracies, and democracies in motion, there is a good political battle in Libya today, and my Libyan friends who are here today have demonstrated there is a political battle between supporters of democracy and those who do not believe in it.
Between supporters of moderate Islam and supporters of a less moderate Islam.
Between those who think that women should be invisible and people who think that women’s faces should grace the world and that companies have more of a feeling of freedom when you have women working.
There is a political battle; in Libya today, and in this political battle I don’t know, I can’t tell you who will win.
What strikes me about the movement in Libya, and for all I know in Syria, from the insurgents, is the speed with which the learning of democracy takes place.
These are people who have come out of 40 years of hype, dictatorship, propaganda, a state of stupidity, and their democratic reflexes have come immediately.
euronews: The Arab Spring has changed a lot around the Mediterranean basin, is this a stabilising factor or a destabilising one?
Bernard Henri Levy:
It’s more stabilising, because the greatest destabilising force in the region was the dictatorships, Gaddafi was, as is Bashar al-Assad … so this form of destabilising is seen less, it was silent, then it became overwhelming with the Lockerby bombing, and the financing of Hezbollah.
We have become the spearhead – as is the case in Syria, Bashar al-Assad, of Iran in the region … but we should not be mistaken for enemy.
Nothing can be more unstable than a world ruled by dictatorships.
First, the dictatorships fell, this is not a destabilising factor and secondly, they have been destabilised in the way the operate.
euronews: Bernard Henri Levy, thank you for answering our questions. ~~~ Bernard Henri Levy: Thank you.
</text>
<text>
The prizes are huge, and the game is on. ~~~ French number one mobile operator Orange intends to be still standing when the dust settles.
Today it is a 41-billion-euro-revenue company with 164,000 employees
and 240 million customers worldwide.
CEO Stéphane Richard insists innovation and market consolidation are the key future trends.
 ~~~ Giovanni Magi, euronews: ~~~ “ Orange has introduced some new devices, applications and software.
Is innovation playing a major role in the growth of companies like Orange?
”
Stéphane Richard, CEO, Orange: ~~~ “ Yes, innovation is a key to growth and to differentiation in the market.
Because, in the telecoms market, first we’re in the core of this digital revolution and we’ve a great contribution to bring to this, for instance in the Internet of things, or in the cloud-based services, in mobile banking; but in the same we are in an industry where there is a trend to, in fact, put only prices as the criterion of choice for consumers.
And we want really to bring new services and new innovations to our customers to make them even happier about Orange.
”
euronews: “ So, it is also a factor of competition between telecoms?
”
Stéphane Richard:
“ Definitely, I do think that it’s a factor of success in the competition.
In fact, there are 2 main factors: the quality of the networks, which is still a basic and that is why we invest a lot in our networks, fixed and 4G wireless, and innovation in services, in the user interface and in the customer relationship in order to be really perceived as a difference, a different player, a different partner, who is competitive in terms of prices but who brings clearly a lot more.
”
euronews: “ The French telecoms market is in turmoil, like other markets in Europe and elsewhere.
You said that 4 players is too many and the French market needs a consolidation.
Does that mean that less competition is better?
”
Stéphane Richard: ~~~ “ It’s not a matter of less competition or more competition.
The point is that we are in an industry where there’s a huge need for investments, because we have to make the country connected.
With fiber, with 4G, so a lot of investments.
And that you have always to strike a balance between competition, based on prices and investments.
I do think that the size of the French market, (I keep thinking this), is not enough to really sustain 4 players, 4 all-role players.
By the way, Germany has recently decided to switch from 4 to 3.
In the US market, which is in itself the size of the whole European Union, you have 4 operators; you have only 3 in China.
So, just explain to me why 3 operators in China is enough and what we would need 4 in France.
It doesn’t make sense.
So, the point is that I do think that in France, like in other countries in Europe, the regulators have gone too far in trying to increase the number of players in the market and now we’re really in a cycle of consolidation.
”
euronews: “ Anyway, it seems that consolidation is going on in the networks.
SFR and Boygues Telecom are willing to share their networks.
Why Orange is opposing this move?
”
Stéphane Richard: ~~~ “ We’re not opposing network sharing in itself.
And by the way, as you know, we’re operating in more than 30 countries and we’ve one third of our antennas that are within network-sharing agreements.
So, we are practicing very much network sharing in Spain, in Romania, in a lot of African countries. ~~~ 
The point is that we’re in front of an agreement, in France, we’re not opposing this in itself but we’re vigilant about the conditions in which this network-sharing could be put in place, especially regarding 4G access, which is a sensitive issue, and that’s it.
But I have nothing against network sharing. ~~~ 
Of course Orange is not in the best position to enter into network-sharing agreements because we’re the leader and because we’ve by far the best network.
So, we’re not very willing to share it.
This being said, these kinds of agreements are not easy to implement and, by the way, I think that SFR and Bouygues are experiencing that it is not easy and it can also raise some regulatory issues.
So, it’s absolutely normal, we’re just defending our interest to pay a lot of attention to the regulatory environment of network-sharing.
”
euronews: “ You have launched a friendly takeover bid for the Spanish telephone operator JazzTel.
Does that mean that Orange has a strategy of leadership in Europe?
”
Stéphane Richard:
“ Yes, clearly what we want to be is number one or number two in the markets where we are.
Today in Europe you have to be convergent if you want to become leader and we thought that in Spain it would be very exciting and very strategic for us to combine with JazzTel, that is a very successful company.
 ~~~ Now we’re going to combine the 2 success stories of the Spanish market: Orange in the mobile and JazzTel in the fixed.
So, we’re going to create a fantastic company made of those 2 skills and we will clearly have a very attractive position in the Spanish market with a capacity also to invest heavily in fiber to the home, since the target is to have 10 million home connected by 2017.
So, it’s tomorrow.
”
</text>
<text>
Richard Aboulafia is VicePresident, Analysis of the Teal Group ~~~ euronews:
The crisis in the eurozone is in full development.
IATA has announced that the profits of the aviation sector will be halved this year comparing to forecasts.
Yet the big manufacturers are challenging each other in the race for orders.
Farnborough 2012 will be the air show of crisis or recovery?
Richard Aboulafia:
Most of the orders we saw last year, and most of the orders we’ll see this year, are for deliveries beyond 2017. ~~~ They are basically positions taken for the next generation of narrowbody jets, Airbus’s A320NEO and Boeing’s 737MAX.
These orders, therefore, should not be regarded as statements of market optimism in the current timeframe.
euronews:
In Europe, Air France is implementing a huge restructuring.
Other major airlines are not doing well.
After the merger between British Airways and Iberia, is to be expected more consolidation, if not worse?
Richard Aboulafia:
The European legacies face weak home markets and growing competition from the Arab Gulf carriers.
But the big three will remain the big three.
What we’ll see more of is the gradual process of absorbing marginal players, as we’ve seen over the past few years.
Yet if anything the crisis has stalled this process.
TAP, for example, is unlikely to be purchased in the middle of a crisis like this one.
Worst case scenario, of course, is more complete failures, as we’ve seen recently with Malev and Spanair.
euronews:
The Asia Pacific is now driving the market for the aviation industry.
Some states, like China, challenge the European Union Emission Trading Scheme and therefore suspend the purchase of European aircraft.
Protecting the environment may become a concern for the industry?
Richard Aboulafia:
It’s clear that the EU massively overstepped in its ETS initiative.
Either it backs down now, with relatively little pain except some embarrassment, or they back down later, after the rest of the world ignores them and imposes painful retaliation.
euronews:
Usually the military sector has been an important driving force for technology research.
Is this still true even in times of cuts to defense spending?
Richard Aboulafia:
There has been less and less of a connection between military research and commercial aerospace.
Since the 1970s, the trend has actually reversed, with considerable transfer ot technology from the commercial world to the military one.
Also, Europe has not spent more than a token amount on military R & D in over a decade, yet the continent continues to do very well with civil technology research and market share.
</text>
<text>
A football legend to some, a “ king ” even for most Manchester United fans, Eric Cantona is also a talented actor and film-maker.
Euronews’ Diego Giuliani caught up with him in Lyon, where Cantona presented his latest documentary, "Football and immigration - a 100 years of common history"
Diego Giuliani, euronews: “ Given the recent tragic events in France, I can’t avoid asking you about the attack against Charlie Hebdo.
First of all: what are you feelings, right now?
”
Eric Cantona: “ It’s shocking, it’s very regrettable, but unfortunately it’s not the first time that the freedom of expression has been attacked.
In October 1988, the Saint Michel Theater was set on on fire during an attack.
Inside there were people watching Martin Scorsese’s film “ The Last Temptation of Christ ” .
The attackers belonged to a Catholic, integralist group and it was in 1988, in France, in Paris.
40 people were injured, four seriously and it was a criminal attack, the aim was to burn alive 50 people.
”
DG, euronews: “ And that’s the point, almost 30 years on and nothing has changed?
”
EC: “ What I want to say is that today, what just happened doesn’t have to be used against Islam.
Fanaticism is everywhere, but it concerns just a minority of people.
The rest are just simple Catholics, Buddhists, Muslims.
I think that it’s important to take the long or historical view.
If we just focus on current affairs, if we limit our view to today’s news, it’s like things never happened before.
It’s important to recall that all this has already occured, it’s already happened with terrorist groups which were not Islamic.
”
DG, euronews: “ Don’t you fear, today, that the actual situation, could create or lead to more fear, more tensions, more racism?
”
EC: “ The danger would be to say that all Muslims are like that, but I’m convinced that 90% of Muslims feel very uncomfortable today and are ashamed of what’s happened.
It’s important not to say, that a Muslim, is “ moderate ” , if he’s just a citizen like you or me.
What does “ moderate ” mean anyway?
Does it mean that Islam is an extremist religion?
This is a latent provocation, you see?
And it’s very dangerous.
We don’t have to paint everybody with the same brush.
”
DG, euronews: “ Are you scared by the rise of extremist and racist groups or by the rise of extreme right?
”
EC: “ It seems to me that all this is linked to the economic crisis.
It seems to me that if there hadn’t been a crisis in 1929 then Hitler would never have obtained power.
And unfortunately, during crises, people fall into despair, they don’t know anymore what to hang on to and all this gives birth to extremism.
What is dangerous, once again, is to take advantage of the despair of some people, to spread crazy ideas.
Those who do it, create and develop hate for political purposes, for power purposes.
And I think it’s sad and reprehensible.
”
Trailer for Football and Immigration: 100 years of common history
DG, euronews: I’d like to speak a bit about immigration.
It’s in the title of your documentary "Football and Immigration: a 100 years of common history" Can football today still – and I’m not referring just to France – help with integration?
EC: “ Yes, I think that sport in general, and football in particular, can do it.
Because in sport, if you’re better than someone else, you play.
This is what is beautiful in sport.
What is regrettable, as Tigana says at the end of the documentary, is that as soon as you leave the football field – among managers, or within national football associations, the situation becomes like it is in the rest of society: if the colour of your skin “ doesn’t correspond ” , you might not have the place that you deserve.
If in the rest of the society there were models, if youngsters in inner city schools, difficult schools, if only they had successful role models as businessmen, or lawyers who made it … But today they don’t have such models.
They don’t exist, because our society is unfair, I think.
”
DG, euronews: “ You said – and I’m quoting you – “ its when you’re cornered, that you prove if you’re a man ” .
Considering episodes of racism which are more and more frequent in the stadiums, do you consider that the measures taken by UEFA and FIFA are enough?
Using your own term: did they behave “ as men ” ?
EC: “ They do what they can.
They put in place strategies, and it’s already good.
It’s the fans who are not real supporters, who are not real football lovers.
Since football gets so much media coverage, it’s used to deliver other messages.
It has always existed, it needs to be fought and I think that fight is on already.
Maybe not enough, but I can’t tell you now how to fight it.
If you like we can think about it together.
”
DG, euronews: “ Despite this, do you like today’s football, do you still enjoy it?
Do you recognise in it the values of a school of life which teaches how to play, how to win and also how to lose together?
”
EC: “ The big players have always been big players.
The big players have always been football lovers, no matter how much money they earn.
When you see Messi playing, when you see Ronaldo playing … they’re people who have a lot of fun on the field.
We do still see good things in football.
Then, if there are powerful businessmen at the head of Chelsea, or Berlusconi, who used AC Milan for political purposes, all these people are there because there is so much media coverage of football.
Therefore, the first to be held to account is the media and those who accuse players of earning so much.
”
DG, euronews: “ In 2010, at the height of the economic crisis, you called for widespread and simultaneous cash withdrawal to hit the banking system (see video below).
Today, the effects of the economic crisis are partly still there and your answer, is it still the same?
What you called, at the time, “ a silent revolution, without blood, nor weapons?
”
EC: “ I just said, when millions of French citizens were demonstrating against pension reform, that if we really wanted to be respected, we should hit the heart of the system, the banks.
Obviously we shouldn’t need to go so far, but it could be a “ deterrent weapon ” .
Today, I hope it’s giving rise to a new solidarity.
And if it’s not like that, this solidarity has to come to life.
”
DG, euronews: “ A last question. ~~~ The Cantona-legend is also built on your temperament, your outbursts of anger.
In few days time, on January 25, It will be exactly 20 years since you infamously kicked a fan during a match at Crystal Palace.
I’d like to know: any regrets?
” ~~~ Cantona-incident à Crystal Palace by -Moraldo
EC: “ What do you want me to say?
My life is like that. ~~~ My life is made up of things which are appreciated, and things which are not. ~~~ Good, bad things … What is good?
What is evil?
It’s like that.
You just need to take responsibility, you just need to go on.
My life is like that.
Where I am today is the result of the path that I’ve taken.
If I hadn’t experienced all that in my life, I wouldn’t be where I am today.
And I’m very happy to be here in front of you today.
”
</text>
<text>
Bogotá, the capital and largest city of Colombia is the country’s most populous conurbation. ~~~ Since 1998 it has been run by leftist mayors.
The latest of them, Gustavo Petro, not standing in the upcoming presidential election, may be the left’s choice in 2018.
Euronews spoke to him in an exclusive interview.
 ~~~ Alberto de Filippis, euronews: “ Could you explain to me what you were accused of and what happened?
Gustavo Petro: “ I am a former guerilla fighter.
Twenty five years ago I took part in a peace process and gave up weapons.
Institutions changed and they gave us civil rights, the country was democratised and 25 years later we have won, through democratic elections, the most important city hall in Colombia.
We have had a relative political and economic autonomy and we have been deprived of that authority, through an administrative civil servant. ~~~ 
“ It means we have not been deprived by a court, a ruling like ‘the mayor has committed a crime and he has to leave’, no.
It was solely the decision of a public official who took away the right to vote from Bogotan electors and who barred me from standing for elected office for 15 years.
euronews: “ What were the accusations ?
” ~~~ Gustavo Petro: “ We tried to take a political, but also administrative decision, which was ordered by the Constitutional Court: to change the city’s cleaning services.
It was a completely privatised model.
We transformed this into a mixed system.
We created a public enterprise which competes in the market and we included, on the order of the Constitutional court, around 14,000 working-class collectors, men and women. ~~~ 
“ These people go out every day to collect recyclable garbage which they can sell on the market.
The Constitutional Court ordered us to include these people in this new model so they could earn money to give them some dignity.
After doing that, big private enterprises saw their profits fall, so they started to sabotage the service, trying to claw back their privileges.
They didn’t collect garbage for three days and left it lying in the streets and then they started to make official complaints.
One of these was picked up by the public prosecutor who used it to deprive the city of its vote by sacking its mayor.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Why did the high court of Bogotà change its mind ? ~~~ ”
Gustavo Petro: “ It didn’t change its mind.
The Interamerican Commission of Human Rights decided to protect me with special measures.
It means that I’ll be mayor from the beginning to the end of my mandate. ~~~ It was a unanimous decision by the Commission.
 ~~~ “ But President Santos didn’t respect this decision.
For the first time in the history of Colombia. ~~~ This has caused my suspension for one month.
The Bogotà high court told the president, through a safeguard measure, that the decision of the commission must be respected.
So he was ordered to put me back in place.
That’s the reason why, you and me, Alberto, are having this conversation in Bogotà City Hall.
euronews: “ Violence in many regions produces displaced people who go to cities and end up in poor areas like those in Bogotà.
These areas become havens for drug lords and paramilitary forces.
How is it possible to escape from this hell?
” ~~~ Gustavo Petro: “ I believe that to get peace we have to change the political model, integrating all of the country’s population, by the democratisation of Colombia.
“ But this means also having the courage to search for a way out of the problem of drug trafficking.
Both things go together, because it all started with social exclusion and violence, and led to drug trafficking, which uses violence for its own ends.
“ If we don’t solve the first problem, which provoked violence, we won’t solve the rest.
Drug lords have used violence to control the state and the territory in Colombia.
It makes the drugs trade almost indestructible.
Drug lords in Colombia have state powers.
” ~~~ euronews: “ What do you think about the war on drugs in Colombia? ~~~ Do you believe that legalisation could be an option?
” ~~~ Gustavo Petro: “ Internal legalisation of drug consumption allows us to rescue the consumer, often young and poor, rom the control of local gangs.
We started it in Bogotà and they punished me for that.
We started a public health programme for drug addicts.
“ But regarding the global drugs trade, its international connections, money laundering and so on, an eventual global legalisation – all that doesn’t depend on a single mayor.
Not even on a president.
It depends on a global discussion which is already going on.
although very slowly.
euronews: “ You have a second chance now.
What are you going to do? ~~~ ”
Gustavo Petro: “ We still suffer from instability.
Above myself there is an anti-democratic Damocles sword.
Until now I was protected by the justice system, but I am still at risk because the attorney general is very strong and can influence many judges by offering jobs to their sons, their brothers, and building ‘unholy’ corrupt links.
“ So he was able to neutralise the safeguards and instruments we have in Colombian legislation.
That’s why the safeguard measures decided by the Interamerican Commission for Human Rights are so important.
That’s why Santos is in a poor position.
Because he first refused to implement them and then accepted them but instead raised some incertitudes, and has created instability in Bogotà.
That is why I consider International solidarity so important. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
OPEC’s recent decision to maintain its output level, led to a dramatic fall in oil prices.
The decision reflected Saudi Arabia’s desire to maintain its position in the global market.
But it will have an impact on Iran whose economy relies heavily on oil and which has been hit hard by international sanctions.
Euronews’ Reihaneh Mazaheri spoke to the Iranian Oil Minister, Bijan Namdar-Zanganeh, about these and other key issues..
RM ~~~ OPEC has just held its most important meeting in six years.
Despite Iran’s efforts, you didn’t get the result you were hoping for.
Why didn’t the main oil producers in OPEC, including Saudi Arabia, share Iran’s view?
BNZ ~~~ Of course, we were advocating a production cut.
We did not propose a figure because such a figure would be determined by analyses and the assessments that were there in the market.
Following consultations that took place, it apparently turned out that we needed a bit of time to see how much of these expensive oils are eliminated from the production circle.
In order to get to a definite decision, we need to have more information about the reaction of the market to the new prices, as you know that all decisions in OPEC should be based on consensus.
RM
You talk about consensus.
But what we see is that, similar to the past OPEC meetings, this recent meeting has also ended with Saudi Arabia getting what it wanted.
As the country produces one-third of OPEC’s oil, can we say that Saudi Arabia always has the last word in OPEC?
In outward appearance OPEC is like a cooperative in that every party, regardless of its output and capacity, can have one vote.
However, the truth of the matter is that the level of production, the capacity for production and the power to produce extra, has a determining role in the market and this is something we need to learn from.
Let me say something general.
OPEC is an organization for cooperation amongst competitors.
It is the only organization in which the third world countries have gathered together for 50 years where they have been able to see their long-term interests and cooperate for common interests despite all their internal disagreements.
It will be good and beneficial if they can continue this cooperation but, if not, there will be nothing left of OPEC.
Each country in OPEC has its own national interests.
Saudi Arabia is one of the main oil producers and exporters.
The country exports nine million barrels of oil and its by-products every day.
It knows that if the oil price falls by 30 dollars (per barrel), it will lose around 110 billion dollars each year.
Behind this decision, they must have had important interests in terms of national security to have made such a loss worth its while.
RM
What do you think these interests are for Saudi Arabia? ~~~ BNZ
As an oil minister I cannot say, l but politicians have produced many analyses on this.
I do not know how much of this analysis is right and how much is wrong.
However, there are numerous analyses in the market and in the media that follow political discussions.
RM
To what extent has Iran’s small share of the OPEC oil basket led to its lack of influence in the organization’s decision-making process?
BNZ ~~~ I have just put it clearly (in previous answer).
Of course, the weight of each country in OPEC is determined by its production level and its capacity to produce extra.
RM
With regarding to the internal disagreements within OPEC, and considering the current flux in the oil market, can we foresee a day when OPEC loses its control over the global oil markets?
One of the important and historical concerns of OPEC has been about its share in the market.
In recent years OPEC’s share in the market has steadily decreased.
If this continues and it goes beyond a certain limit, then OPEC’s impact would become trivial.
RM
On the sidelines of the recent OPEC meeting, you also had talks with the bosses of oil companies like Total and BP.
These companies had roles in Iran’s oil industry in the past but now, because of the sanctions, they don’t.
What was discussed in the meetings?
Are you looking for ways to open the door to foreign investors even though the sanctions are still in place?
BNZ ~~~ We are certainly looking for this and we want these international oil companies to participate in our oil industry as of now.
It is not just for the investment and the money.
We need the technology and the quality management more than money in order to develop Iran’s oil, gas and petrochemical industry.
RM
Minister, you talk very optimistically about the lifting of sanctions.
But, in the most positive scenario, even if it’s decided to lift some of the sanctions you know that it will realistically takes some time and it may not even happen during the current administration’s term in office.
BNZ ~~~ I am not as pessimistic as you are.
RM
But judging from what we have seen in the nuclear talks, it’s clear there has always been some obstacle to reaching a deal …
BNZ ~~~ Of course, in our view, the most important sanction is the oil sanction.
If any sanction is to be lifted, it should be the oil sanction.
And if the sanction on oil is not lifted, that would mean that no sanction has been lifted.
RM
How much have the sanctions cost Iran? ~~~ BNZ
It is certainly costly but we will announce the amount later.
It has its costs but not as much as some people may think.
RM
My last question is about the joint gas field between Iran and Qatar.
You have previously said that within three years, Iran would produce an equal amount to Qatarr.
How much of its share in the joint field has Iran lost out on?
Yes, we will catch up with Qatar in terms of quantity and we may even go beyond.
We need a constant flow of gas.
Qatar has produced an extra amount that we may be able to compensate for in the course of time.
It is also possible that this may not happen.
But what is important is to correct the present and make up for the past if we can.
If we cannot do so, then we should not stay in the past and lament over it.
</text>
<text>
German Social Democrat Martin Schulz has found himself at the head of the European Parliament for this crucial stage of the Greek crisis – a hot seat he found time to quit for a short time to talk to euronews’ Efi Koustokosta.
“ Finally there is an agreement but what we see is different approaches on the text.
The Greek government says it won the first battle but on the other hand the Germans and other international key players say that it’s an old deal in new clothing.
What do you think?
” ~~~ Martin Schulz ~~~ President of the European Parliament
“ Let’s be realistic.
The government made concessions here and it’s not easy for them now to convince their citizens to be a little bit more patient to reduce a little bit their expectations and therefore the different interpretation is normal.
What we agreed is that we should on one hand get the Greek government to fulfil the promises they’ve made and stick to the programme and on the other hand the European partners should pay the 7,5 billion now.
Then we win four months more time and these four months … ”
euronews:
“ Let’s go a little bit back to the negotiations. ~~~ It was 19 Eurozone ministers deciding this agreement.
But at the end it seemed like it was a personal debate between the Germans and the Greeks, between Mr. ~~~ Varoufakis and Mr. ~~~ Schauble.
What is your impression? ~~~ ”
Martin Schulz:
“ This is not a debate between Wolfgang Schauble and Mr. ~~~ Varoufakis.
This is a debate amongst 18 finance ministers with Mr.
Varoufakis. ~~~ Other finance ministers not as well-known as Mr.
Schauble were even more radical than Mr. ~~~ Schauble.
That the Germans have a strong influence is a result of the 27% they represent in the eurozone.
But France has 20% and Italy 18%. ~~~ These two countries together are 38% of the money given to Greece.
 ~~~ So, they have their voice as well.
It’s not a fight of one against another.
We must have a fight in favor of the Greek people.
euronews:
“ Mr Schulz, you know the behind the scenes of the negotiations well.
How close were we to a grexit? ~~~ ”
Martin Schulz:
“ It depends on the government in Athens, it depends on the partners, if they are prepared to find a constructive compromise.
I beg your pardon, I understand your question but I prefer not to discuss about theoretical options.
I prefer to discuss about the concrete needs of citizens.
I am not thinking about a ‘Grexit.’ ”
euronews:
“ You were the first of the EU officials to visit Mr. ~~~ Tsipras when he was elected.
What is your impression?
Does he have a political plan for the future? ~~~ ”
Martin Schulz:
“ I always prefer to speak with people and not about people.
That was the reason I went there.
I knew him as an opposition leader.
To be honest this is a new government with not so much experience in how to govern and not so much experience in international relations.
Therefore, one or another improvement is for sure still possible.
euronews:
“ What are your expectations from them during the next two months, four months of the extension?
Martin Schulz:
“ We can rely on what they say.
One of the most important items to gain trust and to regain trust is when people can rely on agreements and promises. ~~~ 
Therefore, I found it counter-productive to have an agreement and next day the finance minister says yes but we must also discuss about other things.
No. ~~~ 
We must agree now about concrete steps, the steps should be announced and then applied.
That is the best way to gain trust.
My expectation is let’s announce what we want to do and let’s then do what we announced.
euronews:
“ Could you say that austerity and memorandums are over for Greece?
Martin Schulz:
“ No.
For sure Greece has to reduce its sovereign debt and must pay the debt.
And by the way Greek debt was not decided in Berlin or in Brussels.
It was decided in Athens.
Therefore, the country has a certain responsibility but we know no country, neither Greece nor another country will ever bleed a public budget without more revenues, without more money for the country.
But what does it mean more money for the country?
We need growth and employment.
What we saw during the last few years, especially the philosophy of the International Monetary Fund, was only cut.
Only cut is not sufficient.
euronews:
“ Something that you all agree on, the Greek government and the creditors is that Greece needs reforms but structural reforms need time to show results.
In the meantime the country needs money.
euronews:
“ I think everybody is prepared to give Greece more time if the structural reforms are really credible and reliable and the structural reforms must affect first of all, a vital progress to be made by the government, the fight against tax evasion, tax fraud and to look to the revenues side of the budget and not only to the spending side.
Therefore for example to finish privatizations in a general way it’s wrong.
I understand those who say we will not sell our public assets for nothing.
OK.
 ~~~ But find investors like the Chinese who wanted to invest in the harbour in Piraeus, or the owner of the Fraport in Frankfurt! ~~~ A company I know very well wants to invest in the airport in Athens.
These are reliable investors.
These are not bloody capitalists who want to introduce slavery in Greece.
euronews:
“ What is the big challenge for the government?
We can see right now some disagreements inside the government on the next steps.
Martin Schulz:
“ If they want to bring investments into the country it is for sure necessary that they clarify the line within their own government.
But it is not up to me to make the judgement about that.
It is the prime minister who must bring his government and his coalition together.
By the way the fact that a left wing party like SYRIZA joins a government with Mr. ~~~ Kammenos, is also a surprising thing to be very prudent about.
I could even find other words.
Mr. ~~~ Kammenos is perhaps not the logical partner of a left wing party like SYRIZA.
But OK.
We have to live with the government. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Ukraine is moving towards crucial presidential elections on 25th May.
The country’s former prime minister, Yulia Tymoshenko, is a candidate, but the so-called “ chocolate king ” Petro Poroshenko is leading the polls.
 ~~~ Yulia Tymoshenko was the symbol of the 2004 Orange Revolution and Ukraine’s prime minister until she lost the elections in 2010, after which she was jailed in 2011. ~~~ 
With Yanukovich’s fall from power she was released and is now campaigning in the south east of the country as well as courting Ukrainian nationalists. ~~~ 
Considering the political gulf between the two electorates, it is a huge political gamble which euronews spoke to her about.
euronews: “ The situation for Ukraine is particularly difficult; there is huge tension with Russia, threat of war, or at least threat of civil war.
What do you think about the latest statements from Moscow, especially from the Kremlin, about the Ukrainian situation?
”
Yulia Tymoshenko: “ Civil war in Ukraine is impossible, because Putin’s aggression has no support in the east and south of Ukraine.
Only 18 percent of people in the east and south think that Donetsk, Luhansk and Kharkiv Oblast should separate from Ukraine and join Russia.
This is a very small figure, almost nothing.
So there is no large-scale separatism, no civil war.
There is a de-facto undeclared war being waged by Putin against Ukraine, and this has to be stopped immediately.
”   
euronews: “ Do you think that all EU member states are ready to go up against Russia, because a proportion of them have excellent relationships with Moscow, and in particular some EU heads of states have good personal relationships with Putin.
So do you really think the EU would be ready to take steps against Russia?
Tymoshenko: “ I think the world has understood for a long time, that an authoritarian regime has been created in Russia, along with a closed economy.
And rather unhealthy processes are being developed.
The world has wondered how to normalise this situation.
Putin has now given the world the opportunity to basically destroy the regime in Russia, which threatens world peace.
Crimea and Ukraine are traps for Putin and he has walked into them.
So I think the countdown has begun for the end of his regime.
”
euronews: “ Let’s talk now about the presidential election.
The polls show that you are increasingly getting good results, but Poroshenko is still apparently ahead.
Do you think that if this crisis results in postponing the election, this could be a good solution for you because then you might get even better results?
”
Tymoshenko: “ I am strongly against postponing the presidential elections to any other date.
I think that the elections should take place on May 25, irrespective of anything – because for the country it is very important to get a legitimately elected president.
I think it will be a strong stabilising factor for the situation in Ukraine and a factor which will stop the economic crisis.
I am sure the new president will act firmly and consistently and will be able to change a lot.
That’s how I will act.
“  
euronews: “ I do remember after your release from jail when you went on stage in Maidan Square. ~~~ Did you expect then such an outcome and such a huge political, and such a huge geo-political, crisis with Russia?
”
Tymoshenko: “ I couldn’t have predicted such a turn of events, because in 23 years of Independence nobody could have imagined that Russia would start a war against Ukraine.
But the revolution succeeded, and it has given Ukraine real independence and real freedom.
Putin couldn’t accept this revolution, he couldn’t come to terms with it.
He got used to feeling that through a sort of the “ fifth column ” , dependent on him in the government of the country, he could have his policies carried out, and he had plans to expand his empire at the expense of Ukraine.
The revolution upset these plans of his.
”
euronews: “ There is a big problem in this country, with the democratic and social representation of the eastern part of the country.
Because the Party of Regions was a party and Yanukovich was the expression of this party.
Without Yanukovich, the Party of Regions became a kind of lame duck, but the problem remains, doesn’t it?
”
Tymoshenko: “ You are right in that Ukrainians in the east and the south feel a certain lack of attention.
They do not have politicians to rely on.
That’s why over the past few weeks, I have spent all my time in the eastern regions, in Donetsk, in Luhansk, and also near the blocked buildings, in order to hear the Ukrainians in the east, to understand their messages to the Ukrainian government.
I want to understand what they want, what kind of support they want from the new Ukrainian government.
And we are ready to support them.
I think this is one of the main issues today, and I devote a lot of time to it, despite campaigning for the elections.
I think the time has come, as one of the world’s great presidents said, to heal the country’s wounds and to unite instead of fighting each other.
To understand and to take steps towards each other is the way to return to peace.
”
euronews: “ You were one of the leaders of the Orange Revolution.
So, for our viewers, not just in Ukraine, but in countries all over the world, could you explain the difference between the Orange Revolution and the events in Maidan Square?
”
Tymoshenko: “ The Orange Revolution was partly born in support of a presidential candidate, Viktor Yushchenko.
So it was a revolution led and supported by politicians, and won by people.
This revolution is totally different.
This revolution took place without the support of politics or politicians.
It was a revolution of leaders from civil society and those who followed them.
It was a revolution of Ukrainians who wanted freedom, and this is a crucial difference.
”
</text>
<text>
Stability is in short supply in Egypt.
The election of the Muslim Brotherhood and the recent vote on a new constitution has split the country and many are now concerned for the future.
 ~~~ Hamdeen Sabahy is a former presidential candidate and opposition leader.
He is critical of the new government of Mohammed Mursi and the content of new constitution.
He spoke to euronews’ correspondent Mohammed Shaikhibrahim:
“ How do you see the results of the recent referendum? ~~~ ”
Hamdeen Sabahy:
“ This constitution has failed to unite Egyptians.
It did not get the necessary approval, which would have guaranteed a compatible constitution.
It is therefore a constitution that is divisive rather than being a constitution of national assembly, an inclusive, mutual, national project. ~~~ ”
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews:
“ Mr. ~~~ Hamdeen, democracy means one must accept the outcome of the vote? ~~~ ”
Hamdeen Sabahy:
“ Yes, democracy means that and we respect the results, but with one essential condition, which is the integrity of the referendum.
Democracy is not just a means to access power, it is a way of practising this power.
It looks like the power in Egypt has been decided by democratic means, but the one who is in power now wants to destroy the stairway that lifted him to power and to tear it down.
This individual now has a solid grip on power. ~~~ ”
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews:
“ Are we to understand that the Muslim Brotherhood has fabricated the results of the referendum? ~~~ ”
Hamdeen Sabahy:
“ Yes, this constitution, which was supervised by the Muslim Brotherhood government, is full of flaws and breaches and violations, which question the integrity of this referendum. ~~~ ”
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews:
“ Can you give us some articles of the constitution which are at the centre of the conflict between the opposition and the presidency? ~~~ ”
Hamdeen Sabahy:
“ This constitution has given the opportunity for basic rights to be abused, especially freedom of speech, opinion and creativity, by stipulating the freedoms that should be practised under what it calls the basic rules of the state and society.
 ~~~ This raises a question for those who misinterpret Islamic sharia law and use it crush freedom.
Now, the same people are the majority and they abuse Islam and sharia. ~~~ They see this as a restrictive tool, unlike us.
These people are now using the Islamic law as a tool to threaten liberties, to discriminate and spread hate.
They are at the centre of political life.
They can use these articles of the constitution in a negative way that could offend Islam, sharia, freedom and the nation of Egypt. ~~~ ”
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews:
“ You have spoken of the popular momentum to tear down the constitution’s declaration and Egypt’s new draft constitution, but the turnout did not exceed thirty percent How do you explain that? ~~~ ”
Hamdeen Sabahy:
“ Simple, the Egyptian people now have a deeper crisis, which is how to live and to eat.
Many Egyptians believe that the controversy and political dispute comes at the expense of providing opportunities for a decent life, jobs and development and this is certainly true.
That is why they are reluctant to participate in what they see as a kind of obstacle to stability, a stability that will enable the provision of decent and fair economic conditions and a better social life. ~~~ ”
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews:
“ Hamdeen Sabahy, you have been accused by your political opponents of having a lust for power and your defeat at the polls means you are not in government.
Do you agree? ~~~ ”
Hamdeen Sabahy:
“ I am not greedy for power, and it was not an individual desire to run in the elections.
I have no intention to run again in the future, unless the Egyptian national movement sees my candidacy as serving the national interest, only in that case would I run in future elections
In any case I do not see that power in Egypt is something to desire, but if it is a collective decision I will accept it, it is not an individual thing for me. ~~~ ”
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews:
“ The victims of the bloodshed in front of the presidential palace were from the Muslim Brotherhood is that right?
Hamdeen Sabahy:
“ It is not true this is false information. ~~~ ”
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews:
“ The Muslim brotherhood claim that. ~~~ ”
Hamdeen Sabahi:
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews:
” ~~~ “ Certainly the process of expressing opinion was peaceful until the Muslim Brotherhood turned up with its organised groups.
I wouldn’t call them militias.
I don’t think that the Muslim Brotherhood have militias, but they do have organised groups. ~~~ They started the violence in front of the palace.
We accuse the Muslim Brotherhood and it is a clear accusation that they were the main cause of the violence that happened in front of the palace.
We are awaiting the outcome final investigations by prosecutors.
Prosecution investigations uncovered the lies claimed by the president in his speech about conspiracy.
These investigations will prove, as we believe, the guilt of the Brotherhood its guidance office specifically directed their youth to instigate the violence that took place in front of the Presidential Palace. ~~~ ”
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews:
They say it is better for you to stand alone in opposition rather than join with a group, which is considered to be part of the former regime? ~~~ ”
Hamdeen Sabahy:
“ It is true that I have been criticised for joining the National Salvation Front and being seen with Amr Moussa and Sayd El Badawy and I can be questioned.
But we did not and will not cooperate with those whose hands are stained with Egyptian blood and the martyrs of the revolution or those who are corrupt and think only of money.
We stand with together with the people.
Yes, both men were part of the former regime, but Amr Moussa would never have Egyptian blood on his hands.
One may attack Sayd El Badawy, but his Wafd Party, which he leads, is an integral part of the Egyptian National Movement it has a part in this country’s past and future.
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews:
“ What I understood from what you said, is that you believe that Egypt has gone from revolution to dictatorship is that what you believe? ~~~ ”
Hamdeen Sabahy:
“ The existing regime is not a democratic one, and it is not a reflection of the desires of January 25 revolution.
It does not fulfill Egyptian ambitions to have a democracy and broad participation in decision making or an all inclusive social justice. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Following the withdrawal of US troops from Iraq can France play a greater role as Iraq struggles to emerge from invasion, occupation and civil war?
Iraq is a country, which is under going massive reconstruction and a place where security is a major concern.
How does a diplomat operate in such a difficult situation?.
Denys Gauer, the French ambassador to Iraq, spoke to euronews reporter Aissa Boukanoun.
Aissa Boukanoun, euronews: “ How do you define the role of an ambassador in a hostile environment?
”
Denys Gauer: ~~~ “ The situation in Baghdad is unique and diplomats must be flexible, to be able to adapt to the world as they find it, as it is today.
Here in Iraq the main problem is security.
It is not as bad as it was in 2006/2007.
Still, insecurity remains high and causes a number of problems.
The first thing we need is a secure environment where we can work.
A number of embassies are located in the ‘green zone’ a closed and secure area in central Baghdad.
“ France decided to stay outside the ‘green zone’ and work in the real city, with real life, but this exposes us a little more.
Then there is the problem of movement.
This is where we are most vulnerable.To move an ambassador around we need a security setup this limits us and is a constraint.
The role of the diplomat is, after all, to make contacts with companies and the apparatus of state.
When your contacts are limited by cumbersome security arrangements it is a problem.
”
euronews: “ When you speak to people in Iraq do they listen when you speak about democracy, freedom and equality of opportunity?
”
Denys Gauer:
“ I think so, I am struck by the openness and desire to learn from the people I speak with.
Like I said, Iraq is under reconstruction.
All those involved in the administration are very aware of the outside world.
They know there country has suffered and must rise again.
Iraqis look to French political experience, but also our social experience, in questions of religion for example or the organisation of civil society.
I have contacts in the media and they are interested in any training we can give them.
I think Iraq is a country that really wants to learn from the world to help its reconstruction.
”
euronews: “ Is the security situation a real problem for European investors?
”
Denys Gauer: ~~~ “ It is a challenge for diplomats and company representatives who come here.
But this is not an absolute barrier.
These days one can work in Baghdad and the rest of Iraq, we can move and deliver projects, as long as we take precautions.
Business people must also make security arrangements to travel within Iraq and that costs, which must be taken into account, if one wants to operate here.
”
euronews: “ Can Iraq offer opportunities for crisis hit European companies?
”
Denys Gauer: ~~~ “ Yes, certainly.
I don’t think there is any other country in the world that offers as many business opportunities, since Iraq is a big country with a population of 33 million and all major infrastructure must be rebuilt.
So there is a huge market in Iraq and moreover it is a very rich country.
Oil production went up significantly in 2011 as did exports and revenues in the country.
There are so many opportunities here.
”
euronews: “ Iraq needs sustainable investment, what can France provide?
“ I would say we are fortunate that the needs of Iraq fit in well with what we can provide.
They need infrastructure, oil and electricity.
This is a major concern to the Iraqi people, the production and distribution of electricity.
In the area of transport there are many projects in terms of urban and rail cross country transport.
They a need water supply for drinking and sewage treatment, as well as the building of hospitals and telecommunications in all these area our companies are well placed.
To answer the question, French business is now very active in Iraq.
In 2008, we exported 170 million euro worth of goods to Iraq.
In 2011 that has risen to 850 million euros, so you can see how that has progressed in three years.
And I think it looks set to continue.
”
</text>
<text>
From one Scandinavian to another, Norwegian Jens Stoltenberg took over the helm at NATO from Dane Anders Fogh Rasmussen on October 1st.
A former prime minister of Norway and a one-time peace activist who protested outside the US Embassy in Oslo against the Vietnam War, Stoltenberg now heads the most powerful military alliance in the world.
Euronews correspondent James Franey met with Mr Stoltenberg in NATO’s headquarters in Brussels.
James Franey, euronews: What’s your big strategic vision for the next five years for this organisation?
Jens Stoltenberg, NATO Secretary General: It’s to keep NATO strong and at the same time to keep our neighbourhood stable together with our partners and to be able to do that we need to keep the bond between Europe and North America rock solid.
We had a big summit in NATO at the beginning of September and there we made many decisions, which are just related to how we can keep NATO strong.
We decided for instance how to implement a Readiness Action Plan which is a plan about making our forces more ready and to increase our military capabilities.
James Franey, euronews: One of the big issues, of course, as always with this organisation is defence spending, particularly amongst European members of this club.
What would tell European citizens who are so worried in this time of austerity … they are having cuts made to welfare, education and that have to spend yet more on defence.
Jens Stoltenberg, NATO Secretary General: I would start by saying that I understand this is a difficult decision and a difficult choice, but at the same time, I think we have to follow up when we agreed just a few weeks ago … all the head of states and government decided that now the time has come to at least stop cutting defence spending and gradually start to increase it during the next decade.
What we have seen is NATO has cut its spending on defence over the last years, whilst other countries around us, Russia, has increased a lot.
Therefore the time has to reverse that trend.
James Franey, euronews: Let’s talk about the relationship with Russia.
When you were the Norwegian prime minister, you’re said to have had a very good relationship with Vladimir Putin.
He said in a interview last spring that you even had a personal relationship.
How would describe your relationship with the Russian president?
Jens Stoltenberg: Norway and Russia, we have for many, many years worked together on many different issues.
So I have developed a working relationship with Russian leaders.
James Franey, euronews: When was the last time you spoke with Mr. ~~~ Putin?
Jens Stoltenberg, NATO Secretary General: I can’t remember exactly but we had a phone call when I was prime minister.
And I met him on several occasions when I was prime minister.
I resigned as prime minister over a year ago, so at least it’s more than a year ago.
But the whole idea is that the relationship that Norway had with Russia has been founded on our military strength and our membership in the NATO alliance.
So there is no contradiction between being in favour of military strength – a firm predictable policy and at the same time being in favour of a more constructive relationship with Russia.
James Franey, euronews: So what needs to happen next for that relationship to be restored?
The conditions?
Jens Stoltenberg, NATO SG: Russia has to change their actions.
They have to act in compliance with international law.
They have to act in compliance with their international obligations.
That’s something we need to be able to establish cooperative relationship in the future.
James Franey, euronews: Let’s move on to talk about the threat posed by ISIL.
They’re very close to the Turkish border.
What more could NATO do to tackle this threat?
Because it seems the alliance is taking a back seat at the moment.
Jens Stoltenberg, NATO SG: The main responsibility, the core responsibility for NATO is to protect all allies.
We have deployed Patriot missiles in Turkey to be able to protect Turkey … to help them protect themselves from any spillover from the violence, the fighting we have seen in Syria and now we are also seeing in Iraq. ~~~ And we, of course, stand by that.
In addition, we agreed at our summit in Wales that we stand ready to assist and help Iraq with improving, enhancing their security forces, to make them more able to defend themselves.
In addition to that, we also cooperate when it comes to foreign fighters coming home, an exchange of information, so that we are able to avoid that they are posing a threat when it comes to the risk of terrorist attacks in our own countries.
James Franey, euronews: I’m interested that you mentioned the issue of foreign fighters.
You, of course, captured hearts and minds around the world with your dignified response to the Breivik massacre.
Just three years ago, you said in Oslo, that the correct response is “ more openness, more democracy.
” So how is that different from tackling these foreign fighters?
Is it that the same strategy we should use?
Jens Stoltenberg, NATO SG: It is fundamental that we defend our ideals because it is the open society, democratic society they are attacking.
What we shall do every time that we are threatened by terrorists is to defend the core values of our societies, the open democratic societies.
But, of course, in addition, we need police cooperation, we need intelligence cooperation.
We need to defend ourselves.
And this is something NATO is working on.
But of course when it comes to counter-terrorist activities, it is not only a military issue, it is also very much police and intelligence so there are many different services in our countries who are working together to be able to fight terrorists and also the risks which are linked to the homecoming of foreign fighters.
James Franey, euronews: My point is really that the West’s anti-terror response up to now has been anything but democratic.
It’s been expanding the surveillance of individuals.
In some countries, you even have detention without trial.
Is that the strategy we should really follow as Western allies?
Jens Stoltenberg, NATO SG: We have to follow and to respect fundamental human rights and international law.
But at that same time, I think everyone understands that we need police, we need intelligence, we need the security services to be able to protect ourselves against terrorists.
I can see no contradiction between using those means to protect our open society and at the same time being in favour of an open society because that’s actually the way we are able to protect our democratic, open societies.
James Franey, euronews: Why do you think Europeans are going to fight for ISIL?
Why is it so attractive to these people?
Jens Stoltenberg, NATO SG: I think it’s very, very hard to understand that some are willing to go and fight for an organisation which is so barbaric, which are responsible for so many atrocities and it just underlines how seriously we have to take the threat from ISIL.
Therefore I also welcome the military operations which the United States and other NATO allies and regional partners are now undertaking to fight ISIL.
James Franey, euronews: With potentially many dead civilians, could that act as a recruitment tool for ISIL?
Jens Stoltenberg, NATO SG: We have to fight it (ISIL).
And that’s what the United States, other allies, and regional partners are now are doing.
And I welcome that.
</text>
<text>
The world’s first supersonic skydiver, Felix Baumgartner, said he has officially retired from the daredevil business after shattering three world records when he jumped from the edge of space.
Dubbed Fearless Felix, the 43-year-old Austrian pushed the boundaries of human endurance and science with his feat over the New Mexico desert this month, reported to have cost some 50 million euros.
Euronews reporter Andrea Bolitho spoke to him and asked what he was thinking when he was poised on the edge of his capsule with the earth 39 kilometres below him.
He said: “ Well, I was focused on the way up because I had a lot of things to do and then I was climbing out of that capsule.
For a couple of seconds I had the chance to enjoy that view and it was an incredible view because it’s very outstanding, beautiful.
But when you’re standing outside you cannot stand there for a long time because as soon as I disconnect from my ship system I only have 10 minutes of oxygen for my bailout bottles and when you’re standing there you realise really fast that you are in a very hostile environment.
That means you have to step off fast.
Euronews: “ So what happened after you jumped? ~~~ ”
Felix Baumgartner: “ We knew that I am going to go into a spin because it’s just a matter of fact, there’s almost no air, you are almost in a vacuum, so I knew I was going to over rotate a couple of times and it was just a question of how fast I was going to be able to stop that spin.
And I did, I had to use all my skydiving skills to stop that spin and I did.
So I really had to work well, to perform in those four minutes and 20 seconds.
Euronews: “ This is the spin that I’ve heard called a death spin, how exactly do you stabilise yourself when you’re whizzing round head over heels?
” ~~~ Felix Baumgartner: “ The thing is you cannot practice for that spin, you either go for supersonic or you don’t.
And while your spinning you have about 50 seconds to find out to stop that spin so you have to use your arms and legs and you have to do everything gently because you have to remember you are travelling at 830 miles an hour so it’s really hard to find out how to stop that spin but I did.
Euronews: “ Were you aware of when you passed through the sound barrier?
What was it like? ~~~ ”
Felix Baumgartner: “ Actually I didn’t know when I was passing the sound barrier because there were no signs.
I had been told there was going to be a shockwave going through my suit, I never saw that shockwave.
I did not hear the supersonic boom because it happens way behind you so by the time I opened my parachute I did not know if I had broken the speed of sound or not but when I landed I was told by a lot of people that I broke the sounds barrier because they heard the supersonic boom on the ground. ~~~ ”
Euronews: “ At what moment did you allow yourself to think you had made it, that the worst was behind you?
Felix Baumgartner: “ At the press conference when Brian Utley (an official observer monitoring the mission) came up with the numbers, that was the first time when I heard that I broke the speed of sound.
And that was a good moment – believe me.
”
Euronews: “ So up until the moment your feet actually touched down on the earth you were still thinking ‘oh my goodness something could go wrong’.
Felix Baumgartner: “ No, as soon as opened my parachute I knew everything was over, the rest was just another day in the office. ~~~ ”
Euronews: “ You pushed yourself to the limit – physically and mentally – how do you prepare for something like that?
” ~~~ Felix Baumgarter: “ Every time you do a BASE jump, a high profile BASE jump it is difficult so I knew how to deliver if the heat is on plus I have been doing a lot of testing over the last couple of years.
We have high altitude skydives, low altitude skydives, inside the suit, pressurised, not pressurised, we have been in a wind tunnel we also did a full dress rehearsal inside a chamber and we were testing the capsule and myself in terms of temperature and altitude.
Then we made one flight from 70,000 feet, we made two flights from 90,000 feet so actually on that day when we were doing it for real and going all the way up to 129,000 feet I was totally prepared, mentally and physically.
Euronews: “ The jump was postponed because of bad weather and then it took about two and half hours to reach the right height – how do you keep your nerves under control?
Felix Baumgartner: “ Well it is not an easy thing, it is something I have had to learn over all these years because you are seated for a lot of hours and it is not easy – just sitting here (in interviews) for six, seven hours is not easy and it become really worse if you are in a pressure suit, just breathing oxygen, the only thing you hear is mission control or your own breathing noise.
But you have to remain calm otherwise you’re not going to be successful.
Euronews: “ You have done several dangerous stunts in the past – why do you think are you drawn to taking these sort of risks?
Felix Baumgartner: “ I think is mostly, I started skydiving when I was 16 years old and I think when you stay in a sport for such a long time you want to push the limit to a certain level and this is what I did over all these years and when are you a young skydiver you always look up to Joe Kittinger because he’s the one who set the highest and the longest and fastest freefall in history and you always look up to that guy and I always though it would so cool to break that record and I never I’m gonna be that person but I got that chance in 2005 and I took it. ~~~ ”
Euronews: “ You and your team had been preparing for the skydive for years, what were some of the most difficult technical challenges you had to overcome?
Felix Baumgartner: “ There have been a lot of difficult challenges over all these years.
There has been the suit development because our suit is based on a standard airforce suit and then you have to change everything because an airforce suit is made for pilots who do everything or mostly in a seated position but I need to skydive in this suit.
We also had to develop a lot of safety equipment just in case something goes wrong because safety was our main priority.
We had to develop a capsule, a life support system in the capsule and also – you have seen all these pictures so what we developed over all these years is a flying TV studio and those pictures, I think they speak for themselves. ~~~ ”
Euronews: “ The jump was amazing, but was it more than just a stunt?
What was the scientific relevance? ~~~ ”
Felix Baumgartner: “ Well it has not been a stunt, this has been a scientific challenge.
We gained a lot of data and we proved to the world that a high altitude and safe re-entry is possible.
”
Euronews: “ One of your team Dr Jonathan Clark, lost his wife Laurel Clark in the Colombia space shuttle break-up, designing a suit that could protect an astronaut at high altitude must have been very close to his heart?
”
Felix Baumgartner: “ Oh yeah, I mean he was part of this whole programme and he really enjoyed working with us.
And he was the one who was really interested in it and everything we have developed because what happened to his wife, could have saved his wife in the future, because our suit can withstand the sort of speed, we proved it was flying at supersonic speed, all the safety equipment that we developed would keep alive just in case something went wrong.
Euronews: “ What’s your response to people who say it was a waste of money?
Felix Baumgartner: “ Well people are always saying this but look at politics, look how much money they waste.
This has been money that a private person, he was raising that money by selling Red Bull all these years and we brought a lot of happiness to people, I mean the whole world was watching and that speaks for itself.
Euronews: “ So what’s next for you? ~~~ ”
Felix Baumgartner: “ I think I am officially retired from the daredevil business and I had a second dream when I was a little kid and that was flying helicopter so since 2006 I have my commercial helicopter licence and this is what I’m going to do in the future.
Put my skills into public service, I’m gonna work as a firefighter, mountain rescue so again I’m in there, this is what I belong to. ~~~ ”
Euronews: “ All the best with that Felix, thanks for joining us on euronews.
Felix Baumgartner: “ You’re welcome.
</text>
<text>
EVictor Ponta spoke to euronews in the midst of a political crisis: the centre-left government wants to oust the country’s Conservative president, Traian Basescu, saying he has overstepped his powers.
Meanwhile Brussels is concerned about justice within the government’s power struggle with the president.
The conflict could have far-reaching consequences.
Alongside Bulgaria, corruption-ridden Romania wants to join the Schengen Zone, a step which could be postponed.
Just a few days ahead of the impeachment referendum, the European Commission prolonged its monitoring of Romania’s legal and justice system and its fight against corruption.
Hans von der Brelie euronews: “ Is Romania still a democracy?
And it is a part of the European Union.
It shares the same values and I am convinced that we will prove this to all our friends and partners in Europe.
euronews: “ During recent weeks you have issued more than 40 urgent decrees.
Is Romania at war?
Victor Ponta: “ No, I would not say at war.
It is in the middle of a political conflict.
We lack the tradition of dialogue between political forces.
We did not suceed in solving our differences, which could have let to avoiding this political conflict.
euronews: “ This fight between the President and you is harming Romania.
Maybe there will be a postponement of membership of the Schengen Zone, due to this?
” ~~~ Victor Ponta: “ That would be a pity because we have accomplished – and here President Basescu and myself we completly agree – we have accomplished all the technical requirements and the standards, to be a very strong and effective border of the European Union.
That would be a pity that Romania and maybe Bulgaria would be politically punished when we have accomplished all the standards (of the EU) to be a Schengen member.
euronews: “ The European Commission will issue a follow-up report on Romania later this year.
What is your strong message for Brussels?
Victor Ponta: “ The strongest message is that out of 11 concerning points put forward by European Commission President Barroso, we have already solved seven or eight in one week.
So we will solve the rest of them and we will prove that we got the strong message from the European Commission, we positivly reacted to it, and we are ready to put all things back on track.
euronews: “ Washington and Brussels: both are deeply concerned.
Do you still respect the constitutional court and its decisions?
And fully.
The Parliament also reacted very positivly and put all the decisions of the consitutional court into action.
Everything it is going to be the way the constitutional court has decided.
Even the popular referendum with a quorum (50 percent participation), and also all other actions taken by the Parliament and by the government are going to fully respect and implement the constitutional court decisions.
euronews: “ What is the reason that you are attacking the President?
Why do you want to get rid of the President?
Victor Ponta: “ I would answer very simply because 80 percent of the Romanian population want to get rid of the President.
But that would not be a political answer.
The real problem is the complete differences between our political agendas.
President Basescu has assumed a different political agenda, not only austerity, but he even protected his own party, and he politised all State institutions.
We got a huge public support for us during the last local elections, on 10th June, with a different political agenda, which is budgetary discipline.
We are applying all the agreements with the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, but also to some growth and job solutions, which I think is the new European trend.
euronews: “ Earlier this year Romania saw huge mass manifestations and we got the impression that the people are fed up with austerity.
Is it getting too much, maybe?
Do you really stick to this austerity deal with the International Monetary Fund?
Victor Ponta: “ Absolutely we do.
Yes, we will stick 100 percent with the agreements with the IMF and the European Commission.
This is a fait accompli.
euronews: “ The European Commisison is worried about you and having fired the independant ombudsman, how do you react to this?
Victor Ponta: “ The Parliament, our new majority, is going to appoint an ombudsman only based on a political agreement with all the political forces.
euronews: “ Another point: you tried, your government coalition tried to change six out of nine constitutional judges.
Victor Ponta: “ Immediately that this rumour came up in the press, I issued an official statement from the government and also from the coalition, that nobody, in any way, is going to initiate any action against the independance of these nine judges and of the constitutional court.
So that was just a political accusation, a very serious one, and that is why I reacted immediately, to be very clear and without leaving any doubts.
euronews: “ Just a few months in front of upcoming elections you changed the electoral law.
This looks strange.
Victor Ponta: It was an initiative of the Parliament.
The Constitutional Court ruled that there cannot be any change in the election year, and this constitutional court decision is going to be respected.
In November 2012 we will run and we will get elected exactly based on the law adopted in 2008.
euronews: “ Your friend and former Prime Minister Nastase was jailed for corruption and there are allegations that maybe this movement to get rid of the President and to have a new President is a movement to get a pardon for Nastase, your friend.
” ~~~ Victor Ponta: “ Mr Nastase was not my friend.
He was the best Prime Minister that Romania had.
Now the court convicted him, he is going to serve his penalty and the acting president, Mister Antonescu, announced very clearly that he is not going to issue any pardon for anybody.
euronews: “ There are allegations that you copy-pasted parts of your doctoral thesis.
Will you step down?
Victor Ponta: “ I respected all the standards, all the Romanian standards, of 1999.
euronews: “ The fight against corruption, will it go on?
There are allegations that youm are trying to change the head of the National Anti-corruption Directorate, DNA?
Victor Ponta: “ All the chief prosecutors are going to keep their jobs and continue and finish their mandates and new appointments are going to be based only on a transparent procedure which is also going to be scrutinized by the European Commission. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
This week the Nobel Prize for Economics was awarded to the French researcher Jean Tirole.
It came as a shock for the Toulouse School of Economics, where Tirole is the President of the Administrative Council.
The Nobel jury described him as one of the most influential economists of our time. ~~~ It said the prize was in recognition of important theories in many different areas.
Euronews’ Antoine Juillard caught up with Jean Tirole in Toulouse.
Antoine Juillard: “ Jean Tirole, congratulations on your Nobel prize.
It’s great for you and for France as well.
You’ve been recognised by the Nobel jury for your work on market power and regulation.
What exactly does that mean, using an example or two for our viewers?
”
Jean Tirole: “ It means making markets more efficient, because we can’t have a laissez-faire attitude in all markets.
Some are not competitive.
There are difficulties, because there are few businesses, and some sectors will always have only a few companies.
Take the electricity distribution network: we’re not going to have fifteen of those in France, there will only ever be one, which is market power, and which means that companies can increase that and set higher prices.
So the idea that we had is to carry out research to create guidelines in terms of competition.
This allows us to say: “ Okay, companies have to be monitored, and sometimes we have to intervene, without damaging the dynamics of the sector.
”
Antoine Juillard: “ At the moment the European Commission is studying the budgets of member countries, including that of France.
What do you make of this extremely risky exercise where a state tries to control its public spending but at the same time provide enough fuel for the development of its economy, its growth.
“
Jean Tirole: “ Well, it’s normal that a state’s budget is in deficit at a time of recession because there is less revenue from taxes.The big problem is that France has a deficit of 3 per cent of GDP, even when things are going well.
We have not had a balanced budget since 1974, for 40 years.
And so that’s very problematic, because it means we’re kind of living on credit from overseas.
So you have to control that, but it’s not easy at the moment.
A lot of effort is needed, that’s for sure, but then we can’t go too far either.
”
Antoine Juillard: “ A European budget, that would be ideal for the integration of Europe.
Would that be a utopia for you?
”
Jean Tirole: “ We’ve missed an historic opportunity to make a budget for Europe.
It’s true that the US has a budget for the United States.
This means that when a state is doing badly, it gets a lot of transfers automatically. ~~~ This includes, for example, unemployment benefits.
The state gets a lot of transfers automatically from other states that are doing better.
That’s not the case in Europe, as the European budget is quite negligible.
It’s just 1 per cent of the EU’s GDP, which is very small.
So there are no such automatic transfers that stabilise countries.
Also, there is no common law.
For example, take the labour market. ~~~ The US basically has a labour market with similar laws, from California to New York.
That’s not the case between southern and northern Europe. ~~~ We should’ve had a European budget with similar laws, for the labour market, for bankruptcy, etc.
We didn’t do it.
”
Antoine Juillard: “ You’re a member of a council of economic advisers that provide opinions on various economic topics for the office of the French Prime Minister.
Are you listened to, and do your suggestions ever become reality?
”
Jean Tirole: “ Well, sometimes it becomes reality, but the process is quite slow and that’s normal.
The economist John Maynard Keynes once said that politicians often listen to economists who are deceased and whose names they don’t know.
That’s exaggerating slightly, but it’s true that it takes time, especially when it’s politics-related, when it touches on sensitive topics.
For example, obviously labour market reforms create a lot of concern and that’s normal for many people.
Just how is it going to happen? ~~~ It’s very difficult to implement, but hey, that’s how it is.
It’s difficult for a politician because there’s public opinion to deal with. ~~~ It’s their job. ~~~ Obviously it’s quicker when you have influence over regulatory agencies and authorities, as well as with competition watchdogs in Brussels or Washington.
”
Antoine Juillard: “ In the media today we’re talking a lot more about the economy than politics.
Do you think the governance of a state will be mostly economic in the future?
Jean Tirole: “ The economy, including the market economy, needs a strong state.
The modern state is a state that is light but strong at the same time.
That means it’s not too excessive.
And it’s strong in the sense that it’s capable of enforcing competition rules, and of course redistributes wealth through taxation, to avoid monopolies.
It’s a state that stands up to lobby groups and carries out reforms.
”
Antoine Juillard: “ In general the West is managing that okay?
”
Jean Tirole: “ Well, it’s evident that they’re managing better in northern Europe than in southern Europe.
I think we need to look towards the example of all these countries in northern Europe, which like us, have a social model they’re sticking to, but who know how to carry out reforms to achieve this new conception of the state: a more efficient state that keeps all of its assets.
”
Antoine Juillard: “ Commenting on your Nobel prize, some have said they would have preferred a Nobel for the left.
Do you consider yourself to be right-wing?
”
Jean Tirole: “ Listen, once again, I have my own political views.
But if my research is beginning to be influenced because I want to be on the left or the right, I think that’s a disaster.
I want to stay completely independent.
On the whole most well-known economists have the same scientific background, and so they reason in the same way, sometimes with slightly different views on topics that are difficult, because of course we don’t know everything.
There is a consensus on a certain number of subjects, and then there are topics that are extremely difficult, which we can disagree about.
But these disagreements are solved with the same scientific methodology.
We discuss them with the same scientific methodologies and that is the science in a way.
It’s not about trying to have political biases, ideologies, or being hemmed in by lobby groups or industry.
That is not science.
”
Antoine Juillard: “ I imagine you’ve been in big demand for media interviews since winning the Nobel Prize?
”
Jean Tirole: “ I don’t know how many I’ve done. ~~~ It’s strange because I’m actually a researcher.
Look at my office, that’s where I like to live. ~~~ And then all of a sudden there was this whirlwind that arrived and every 15 minutes they handed me the phone.
I was interviewed in a TV studio, which I’m not use to, and which I’m not good at.
I know it will go on for two or three months. ~~~ After I think it will calm down and I will return to my research work.
”
Antoine Juillard: “ If it’s not too indiscreet, what are you going to do with the 878,000 euro prize money?
”
Jean Tirole: “ This is a huge amount and frankly I haven’t thought about what I’m going to do with it.
That really was something, another surprise.
Already I was very surprised to receive the call about winning, and it’s true that it’s extremely rare to have just one economist chosen.
I’m incredibly honoured, because it’s such a massive thing.
”
Antoine Juillard: “ So you haven’t thought about it?
”
Jean Tirole: “ No it takes a few months to completely sink in.
After returning from Stockholm, I’ll start to come down from the clouds.
”
</text>
<text>
This interview’s focus is Taiwan, an island long proud to call itself independent but over which China claims sovereignty.
This conflict has been among the gravest security threats in south-east Asia since the Second World War.
Relations between the capital, Taipei, and Beijing have improved, thanks to a new president.
Taiwan is also keen to cement a trade agreement with the European Union, to avoid economic annexation by China.
Concerning another territorial dispute, Taiwan has offered to mediate to allay tensions between China and Japan. ~~~ We discussed these matters in an exclusive interview with Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou.
Margherita Sforza, euronews:
“ Mr President, Taiwan is major trade partner for the EU, but negotiations on a free trade agreement have not yet started.
How important is this agreement for Taiwan? ~~~ ”
President Ma:
“ The objective of negotiating with the European Union to sign a free trade agreement or economic cooperation agreement is primarily for the benefit of both parties, because our two-way trade last year reached US$48 billion [equivalent to 35 billion euros].
The EU is the largest source of investment in Taiwan, having invested over US$32 billion [23 billion euros]. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ The EU is making progress on free trade agreements with several of your competitors in Asia.
Negotiations have been concluded with South Korea and Singapore, and are ongoing with Japan.
How afraid are you that Taiwan will be left behind?
”
President Ma:
“ South Korea and the EU signed a free trade agreement two years ago.
South Korea is our major trade competitor in global markets.
Thus, this poses a considerable threat to our country.
Similarly, the free trade agreement signed by South Korea and the US that took effect last year has already had a marked effect on exports of our products to the US.
We have already fallen behind, so should catch up as soon as possible. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ What do you think will be the principal benefits to the EU of this free trade agreement?
” ~~~ President Ma:
“ According to research by a think tank in Denmark, after the Republic of China – if Taiwan [officially the Republic of China, ROC, while mainland China’s official name is the People’s Republic of China] and the EU sign an economic cooperation agreement (or free trade agreement), Taiwan could expect its exports to the EU to grow by €10 billion.
For Europe, over the next two to five years, the increase could be €12 billion.
As Taiwan is at the centre of East Asia, many countries could use such an agreement after it is signed to bolster their trade with mainland China and Europe. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ Under your leadership, the economic relationship between China and Taiwan has become stronger.
China and Taiwan move much closer; but [would you say] too close? ~~~ ”
President Ma:
“ I believe that our relationship with mainland China is developing normally, as it has already been Taiwan’s largest trade partner for 10 years.
Over the past decade, we have wanted cross-straits trade to grow, but we have also hoped that its share in our total trade would not increase too quickly.
Since I took office five years ago cross straits trade (with China) has expanded to 160 billion US dollars [117 billion euros] per year, which, however, has not accounted for a larger percentage of our total trade because our trade with other countries has increased. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ One of the fears in Europe is that some of your markets are still closed to European companies.
How much are you ready to open your markets to European companies, especially, for instance, in the service sector?
” ~~~ President Ma:
“ As for the service sector: the economic cooperation agreements we have signed with New Zealand and are about to sign with Singapore [do] cover services.
After these agreements are concluded, import tariffs for 85 percent of products will be reduced to zero.
Therefore, if we sign an economic cooperation agreement with the European Union in the future, its content will probably be very similar. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ How much could the free trade agreement with Europe help Taiwan to improve its international space, its international position? ~~~ ”
President Ma:
“ Over the past 60 years, due to international political pressure, we have been rather isolated.
However, Taiwan is a very important trading nation.
Taiwan’s imports and exports rank 17th or 18th, globally.
This fact cannot be overlooked.
So, when we sign economic cooperation agreements with other countries, our international room for manoeuvre naturally increases.
Of course, we do not rely solely on trade and investment.
On the international stage, we aim to play the role of peacemaker and provider of humanitarian aid, so as to demonstrate that the Republic of China (Taiwan) is an asset to the international community, not a liability. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ One of the main threats in this region at this moment is the territorial dispute over the Diaoyutai Islands.
These are unpopulated islands rich in oil and gas that are claimed by Japan, by China, and by Taiwan.
So you promoted the East China Sea Peace Initiative.
But after the tension of this summer, do you still believe it is possible to share these resources? ~~~ ”
President Ma:
“ The Diaoyutai Islands (Senkaku in Japanese) are an inherent part of the sovereign territory of the Republic of China, and appertain to Taiwan.
This issue has caused friction with Japan for the past 40-some years.
In April of this year, we (Taiwan) signed a fisheries agreement with Japan, reaching a temporary solution with regard to fishery issues.
Even though the sovereignty dispute has not yet been resolved, our position is that while sovereignty cannot be divided, resources can be shared.
By first resolving the resources issue, we disarm the overall dispute.
When the time is right, we will deal with the sovereignty dispute. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ How much did you model this (peace) plan on another, European, example? ~~~ ”
President Ma:
“ Concerning this issue, we have always referenced the way Europeans resolved contention over North Sea oil.
I believe that this precedent has important implications for many areas where there are resource disputes.
But whether we will reach a similar resolution depends on whether neighbouring countries have the determination and willingness. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ In your proposal, at the end, the question of sovereignty is still unsolved.
What will the political solution be?
Who should administrate these islands? ~~~ ”
President Ma:
“ A final resolution of issues like this is necessarily a political one.
But in the process of reaching a political solution it is sometimes possible to allow for joint development of resources as a means to smooth the way to a political settlement.
The Diaoyutai Islands involve Japan, mainland China, and the Republic of China (Taiwan); we are looking for a comprehensive settlement for this issue.
But in the short term, as we await such a settlement, we have resolved the issue of fishing rights with Japan, which increases the chance of settling the regional dispute.
I believe that it is also beneficial to peace in the region as a whole. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
After 10 years at the head of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso is leaving his post of president.
He exits as Europe remains in big difficulties, especially the eurozone where some countries are experiencing record unemployment and economic stagnation.
Euronews spoke to him and asked: “ The European Union is today unloved by its citizens and synonymous with austerity.
Do you feel you’ve failed or feel unsatisfied leaving your post?
Jose Manuel Barroso: “ Of course I’m extremely disatisfied when I see the sacrifices made, or being made, by many Europeans.
But at the same time, I feel I must say to Europeans that this situation isn’t the fault of Europe, it’s the fault of those who created and managed financial markets … as we’ve seen the crisis began elsewhere.
“ The crisis is also down to the cumulative mistakes made by some governments which didn’t think in terms of balance, governments which accumulated excessive debts.
So, Europe is not the problem.
On the contrary, Europe is part of the solution and it’s thanks to the European Union that certain countries have been rescued from the brink of bankruptcy.
euronews: “ But the social impact has been great … ”
Barroso: “ The situation remains difficult but we’re much better now than two years ago when everyone, or a large number of partners predicted the break up of the euro zone.
euronews: “ If you could go back in time, what would you do differently?
Barroso: “ First of all, I think there was a communication problem, and for that I must accept responsibility because despite all efforts, I don’t think we succeeded.
Also, I must say that very often governments failed to work with us towards explaining to Europeans the origins of the crisis, the causes of the crisis and what we were doing about it; so, in my opinion, from a political point of view, we didn’t have much room to manoeuvre.
As the Commission we operate in a strict framework imposed by governments which don’t always want to be generous with those in difficulties.
euronews: “ You’re saying there was a lack of solidarity between member states?
Barroso: “ I would’ve prefered if it was more forthcoming … ”
euronews: “ OK, but what would you say to those who accuse you of not being sufficiently firm?
They say you could’ve taken the initiative when some states displayed a lack of solidarity, I’m thinking notably of Germany which took some time to react … ”
Barroso: “ No, first of all we did take the initiative, all the legislative initiatives were initiated by the Commission.
If today there’s a banking union it’s because of the Commission.
I remember the first time I spoke of a banking union – there were some countries which replied: ‘You can’t talk of a banking union because it’s not in the treaty’.
Yes, I said it’s not but we need banking union to achieve the objectives of the treaty.
It’s true that during the crisis, because of the sensitivity of the markets, I didn’t want to add my voice to the cacophony.
euronews: “ But shouldn’t you have done just that as European Commission President?
Barroso: “ When it was needed I did.
I made very strong requests demanding that Germany help Greece, saying there would be dramatic consequences if there was no favourable decision.
At the same time I went to Greece to tell the government it had to end the political confusion if it wanted to earn the trust of other member states.
What I did, discretely with governments, our partners, was to search for a solution, and today these countries are in better shape than two years ago.
euronews: “ However, you were fiercely criticised for your handling of the euro crisis.
How do you respond to your detractors?
Barroso: “ National politicians, when things go well, say it’s because of their actions.
When things go badly it’s the fault of Brussels.
That’s the reality.
We don’t yet have a real sense of responsibility towards Europe, and I regret that.
I’ve said to all governments and heads of state that they must give up this perspective because one day they’ll need to count on the support of their people for Europe, to stay in the union and they won’t have it if they systematically undermine the work of European institutions in favour of their national agendas.
euronews: “ You’re clearly describing David Cameron.
At the recent European summit and again before MEPs, he said he wasn’t going to support the Commission’s claim for a bigger budget, an expansion he claims is based on the good performance of Britain’s economy.
Barroso: “ That’s a great example on what we shouldn’t be doing.
The Commission is obliged to enforce the rules defined by the governments themselves.
There is a rule concerning contributions in relation to each member states’ GDP.
During the last few years – and congratulations to Britain – they’ve raised their GDP so they must increase their contribution proportionally.
Rather than presenting it in those terms, the British PM came out with a diatribe against European institutions. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ How do you feel in the face of such anger?
Barroso: “ Well, it’s unacceptable.
euronews: “ Aren’t you tired of being treated in this way?
Barroso: “ I don’t agree with this sort of behaviour.
I think it’s always a mistake.
Why is it a mistake?
Because Mr Cameron always says he wants Britain to be in Europe, he wants a referendum to confirm its place in the EU.
But he’s trying perhaps, against his will, for political reasons because another party is threatening; he’s trying to reinforce anti-European sentiment.
It’s a fundamental error.
euronews: “ Anti-European sentiment that’s already very, very strong..
Barroso: “ It’s already strong and getting stronger.
Listen, when there’s constant, every day attacks by political leaders on the European Commission, the European Union, of course people say the European Union isn’t a good thing … ”
euronews: “ France has made changes its budget to avoid a bust-up with Brussels.
Italy too.
Are you satisfied with this attitude?
Barroso: “ Despite what’s been written or said in some sections of the press, we’ve seen a positive attitude from the French and Italians.
That means they recognise that the Commission has the right, even I would say the duty, to say when national budgets don’t conform with or break the rules.
euronews: “ It must, it’s in the treaty … ”
Barroso: “ We have a duty, it’s a power member states have given us, precisely because we’re integrated in the eurozone.
We can’t have a single currency if each country does what it likes … .
euronews: “ OK, they have to respect the rules, rules which demand a penalty if broken.
But do you think punitive fines are a good measure to apply to states which don’t respect the stability pact and which already have economic problems?
Barroso: “ That’s why member states have to respect the rules to avoid this scenario, a scenario that’s very, very negative.
The next Commission must continue this work and see with the governments of each country.
There are five, even though everyone always talks about France and Italy, there are five others who’ve needed the Commission’s financial help.
euronews: “ Talking of your successor and the new Commission.
Do you have any advice to give?
Barroso: “ I won’t give any advice in public, successors don’t like to receive counsel in public … Now it’s him (Jean-Claude Juncker) who’s President, it’s not me and of course he has my full backing.
I wish him and the Commission and Europe, the very best.
</text>
<text>
Ferrari president Luca Cordero di Montezemolo was in Paris for the World Automobile Fair. ~~~ 
Euronews spoke to him about the state of the car industry, sports competitions and politics.
Giovanni Magi, euronews: ~~~ “ Ferrari is one of the few car makers that has overcome the serious crisis affecting the European car market.
Is it because yours is a niche market? ~~~ Or are there other reasons to your success?
” ~~~ Luca Cordero di Montezemolo:
“ It depends on three things: large investments in innovation, which provides us with a range of brand new cars.
 ~~~ “ Globalisation – we are now present in 60 countries around the world. ~~~ 
“ And customer satisfaction – we make sure those who own a Ferrari feel they are part of a club, it’s very personal, they can even have a tailor-made Ferrari. ~~~ ” ~~~ euronews:
“ Your customers probably don’t care much about the price of oil.
But will Ferraris continue to run on petrol for a long time?
” ~~~ Luca Cordero di Montezemolo:
“ The answer is yes, because I personally don’t have much faith in electric cars.
But we are working on two fronts. ~~~ 
“ First of all – and we can already see the results – with technologies that will enable a significant reduction in fuel consumption.
We’re talking about more than 30 percent compared to previous models.
And also a reduction in emissions.
 ~~~ “ Secondly, the hybrid car: by the end of this year, Ferrari will come out with its first ever hybrid model. ~~~ We use experience gained in Formula 1 with the Kers system, which enables the recovery of clean energy created by the car’s braking process (and cars like ours generate a lot of energy).
So we are working in this direction, without losing sight of the two essential characteristics: the thrill of driving a Ferrari – which doesn’t necessarily mean top speed, but the acceleration and the feeling of power, the passion of driving.
euronews: ~~~ “ You were president of Fiat for seven years.
If you were at the head of a company that produces cars for the general public today, what would you do to address the crisis? ~~~ ”
“ Once they would have called this the million-dollar question, though a million dollars may not mean that much any longer …
“ What I would do is one thing I’ve always tried to do at Ferrari. ~~~ It may sound obvious but it isn’t: make beautiful cars.
I believe that any type of activity cannot be separated from the product.
You may have a good image, a good financial situation, but the basis is the product.
I think this is number one. ~~~ 
“ Another thing to do, and it is happening in many automobile companies like Fiat, you have to develop strong partnerships, for components, engines, to cut costs.
For Fiat, the partnership with Chrysler – which started under my leadership – not only represents salvation but also an opportunity for growth.
euronews: ~~~ “ You’ve probably heard of the controversy in France about entrepreneurs wanting to emigrate for tax purposes.
Do you think that the tax burden is a good enough reason to leave your country?
” ~~~ Luca Cordero di Montezemolo:
“ I have to say it is yes, in this sense: it depends on the size, but when acting as an entrepreneur, in a country with such a high tax burden, at one point there is the risk of not being as competitive as other countries.
 ~~~ “ Just recently, I said in Italy, that it is fair that those who have more must pay more.
It’s absolutely fair, because this is normal, it’s the right thing to do.
But on two conditions: one is that if the state asks citizens to make sacrifices, it must make some first.
And the second condition is that the state tells us clearly where our tax money is going.
Because if my tax money – and I repeat, it is fair for rich people to pay more – ends up in public spending or fuelling corruption, then I don’t agree at all.
euronews: ~~~ “ Ferrari has been through periods of deep crisis, but has also experienced amazing comebacks and recovery.
What is the key to allow a team to overcome even the most difficult moments?
” ~~~ Luca Cordero di Montezemolo:
“ You and your viewers know that winning is not always easy, and to keep winning is even more difficult.
Hence, what is needed is: teamwork, determination, to always look forward, innovate, invest in young people, help people evolve from number two or number three to number one.
And occasionally, bring in people from the outside, who bring a breath of fresh air, a new culture and a new way of thinking. ~~~ ”
euronews: ~~~ “ Can we venture a prediction for the Formula 1 world championship?
Luca Cordero di Montezemolo: ~~~ “ Look, we are now in the lead.
I think, and I say it with conviction, that it’s up to us to win or lose this world championship.
I hope to win it, of course, I think we may have the right conditions, but, as I always say, we’re not running alone, we have very strong opponents.
 ~~~ “ I also hope, in the last few races, to have a second driver, Massa, who can take away some points from our competitors. ~~~ Because in the remaining six races, it’s not only important for us to do well, but also for our opponents not to do too well.
euronews: ~~~ “ You are president of the political and economic think-tank Foundation Italia Futura which is actively involved in Italy’s 2013 general election.
What will your personal commitment be? ~~~ ”
Luca Cordero di Montezemolo:
“ The first goal of Italia Futura is to contribute to the renewal of the political class, injecting new people into politics, competent, credible people with a passion for giving and not receiving.
This is very important in a political world like ours, that is stuck in its ways and very reluctant to take responsibility for what is happening. ~~~ 
“ And the second is to stimulate Italians with fresh ideas and to bring about change, to broaden their prospects, and encourage them to get more involved in their country, for the common good.
Along the lines of the French Fifth Republic.
I hope that Italy, with its third republic, can do the same as the Fifth Republic in France.
But I’m not asking for anything for me, I will not be candidate.
“ I want to do something for my country that has given me so much, and I want to continue meanwhile to do a good job, but also contribute to this project in which I really believe, mainly because I have kids, because I love Italy and I realise the extraordinary potential of this country that doesn’t deserve to be in this situation. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
At thirty years old Philippe Gilbert is considered one of the best professional cyclists in the peloton.
In 2011 the classic and one day specialist won the ‘Golden Bicycle’ award for the best performance over the year – the same year he was crowned champion of the UCI’s World tour championship.
In Monaco Euronews got the chance to catch up with the current world road race champion, who joined high-flying Swiss-based team BMC at the start of the season.
Euronews: You are known as a puncher in the cycling world, where does this quality to attack come from?
GILBERT: ‘‘I would say my speciality is the one day races – but it’s true I am a puncher, I love the final stretches that are difficult and very steep – technical finishes … and that’s where I have success and can give the best of myself.’‘
Euronews: You are also one of the classic specialists – the Ardennes and Flanders.
What’s your secret?
GILBERT: ‘‘Well I mean the secret is to have great endurance, have a good knowledge of the race and experience.
They are races I’ve competed in since I was young, I just finished my tenth year as a pro so I have ridden all the classics at least seven or eight times and for most I have competed at the finish line almost every time, so I have a lot of experience.
Now I have a very strong team behind me that is dedicated to my cause and that makes a difference.
When you factor in all these points you are close to winning.’‘
2011 was a fantastic year for Gilbert.
He won the Amstel Gold Race, the Flèche Wallonne and the Liège–Bastogne–Liège to become only the second rider to win the three Ardennes classics in a single year.
He also won the Belgian road race and time trial titles.
GILBERT: ‘‘2011 remains for me my best year in terms of success.
I definitely want to repeat those exploits in the future but I think I set the bar very high.
In modern-day cycling it’s rare to do that, to win five different classics out of the year’s 18 races.
So I mean it was an extraordinary feat for one year, not to mention wearing the yellow jersey in the Tour de France and ending the season as world number 1.
I had a lot of success and I think that for me and my supporters it was a big, big year.’‘
Euronews: And this is what inspired you in 2012, notably for the world championships?
GILBERT: ‘‘I would have preferred to start this year with the same performance but it wasn’t the case for various reasons.
I did however finish the year with a similar level of success with the Tour of Spain and the World Championships in Valkenburg, so I want to say that I was back to my 2011 best and I got the success that goes with that level of performance, so I was happy.’‘
It was a long-awaited victory for Gilbert who predicts more adventures with his BMC team in 2013.
Gilbert said: ‘‘In two weeks we have a team meeting with all the riders.
We will discuss the program of the new season and I hope also to see the presentation of the next Tour de France.
That will happen on October 24 in Paris, so I will wait to see the course and see if it inspires me or not.
Then we will see if I will participate in the 2013 Tour de France.’‘
Euronews: What is your take on USADA’s doping allegations against Lance Armstrong ?
GILBERT: ‘‘My opinion on the case is that Armstrong and his accomplices are impressive in how they were able to organise their lives, colluding, the complicity of it.
I am fortunate to be a rider of the new generation. ~~~ I have not been affect too much by this well organised system or gang. ~~~ 
‘‘I have not suffered too much as a result because I turned pro in 2003 and Armstrong quit it in 2005.
I competed in my first Tour de France in 2005 when he won his seventh, I mean I was very young I had no claim to the overall title or anything, I was never his rival.
‘‘For sure we started the same race but he never caused me harm.
It’s unfortunate what is happening and it is unfortunate that it didn’t come out in the press earlier … if there were so many people who knew about it it’s a shame it didn’t come out earlier and then it could have been sorted out earlier.’‘
Euronews: Why do you think cycling is so tainted by doping?
GILBERT: ‘‘I mean that can be explained by different things, but I think it is the only sport which has taken its own destiny in it’s hands, we the riders pay the controls ourselves, we put into place the biological passport, all riders of my generation were for it in order to get us out of this situation.
So you pay 3% of the yearly profits towards these funds, plus all teams pay an annual fee for anti-doping, I mean we all contribute to this sport, there’s a lot of willingness on behalf of the younger generation like mine.
But obviously when a sport puts into place these kind of controls you will get positive cases.
‘‘There are many sports where there are very few controls or they are notified beforehand so there is a complicity to avoid positive cases and when there are the positive results they are often covered up.
We are trying to solve this problem as quickly as possible and to weed out the cheaters.
I think a lot of people often point the finger at us because of that, but it’s not just our sport with a doping problem.
If other sports had the same level of testing I think there would be a lot of surprises.’‘
</text>
<text>
For a little over two years, Michel Barnier has been the European Commissioner for the Internal Market and Services.
Part of that brief is to calm the markets and complete the single European market.
Those are two challenges which the current debt crisis has made even more urgent. ~~~ Euronews talked to him about these challenges.
The Commissioner who has held several ministerial jobs in France also gave his opinion on the difficult balance between austerity and growth.
Audrey Tilve, euronews: “ Michel Barnier, welcome to Euronews.
At the European Commission, you are on the frontline in the fight against the crisis and its causes, I want to return to that.
But first, I would like to discuss with you Europeans’ frustration at what is seen as the dogma of austerity.
We saw this recently in the Netherlands where the government fell.
Do you not think it is time to think again on these austerity measures and instead give priority to growth?
Michel Barnier: “ The austerity measures have been put in place in several countries to reduce their deficits, to lessen the countries debts.
It has been made more difficult because for 20 or 30 years some countries have been badly managed, writing blank cheques secured against the future generations and spending more than they earned.
‘That’s why it is such a difficult situation today and so action has to be taken quickly because if these countries, not just Greece, do not make the effort to control, to better manage their finances so they can borrow, they will be forced to borrow at exorbitant rates or no one will lend to them.
”
Euronews: “ But there are still many countries that are in recession, unemployment rates are soaring- in Spain it is nearly 25 per cent.
What some countries are asking for is simply to have a little more time to return to below a three per cent deficit because sometimes that objective is not sustainable.
But no flexibility is allowed, especially with the Treaty budget.
”
Michel Barnier: “ This treaty budget is a joint ownership agreement.
It was not decided by technocrats or bureaucrats here in Brussels.
It was discussed by governments, by heads of state …
Euronews: “ Germany especially wanted it.
”
Michel Barnier: “ It was discussed by 25 governments, 25 prime ministers and heads of state, democratically elected officials who chose this path together, what we should have done for the last 10 years, that is to say economic and budgetary union accompanied by monetary union.
If we want this task, what you call austerity, to be bearable, if we want people to support this budget we need to create growth which will stimulate employment.
”
Everyone including Germany agrees it is urgent, there is a consensus on that.
However, there are differences.
Merkel and Mr. ~~~ Draghi who want stimulus by structural reforms: more flexibility on the labour market, more liberalisation.
And then there are those who want stimulus to come through what they imply should be public investment.
Where do you stand?
“
Michel Barnier: “ It is not as clear cut as that.
I hope the Heads of State and Government who will meet soon at the European Council, can discuss all this and create the policy Mario Draghi has talked about, or the initiative which I have proposed, growth for European citizens.
There are short term measures, for example, making better use of the available structural funds, finding better means to expand the workings of the European Investment Bank and how it invests, creating what the European Commission proposed, so-called project bonds, that is to say loans which have been pooled at European level to invest in infrastructure, in networks, networks for the digital economy, for energy or clean transport.
The second component is the single market.
There are structural reforms.
We have proposed fifty rules or European laws to facilitate mobility, to facilitate investment, to facilitate innovation.
”
Euronews: “ When you think of the single market, you think of harmonisation or a level playing field.
But there is competition among European countries, for now its not on equal terms.
There are huge gaps in salaries with many consequences notably relocation.
There are limits to this single market.
”
Michel Barnier: “ Of course, not everything is equal in the single market, but the path we have laid down is to harmonise to come together more, to have standards, common rules, and not to prevent competition, competition is part of life, what I am working for is competition which is fair and equitable.
The single market is the main opportunity for growth.
”
Euronews: “ Michel Barnier, you are also responsible for regulating finance in Europe.
It is something on which you have spent a lot of time for two years now.
Still, even today, financial markets continue to hold governments by the throat.
Is there a way out of this?
“
Michel Barnier: “ No financial market, no financial player, no financial product will escape, I stress, effective regulation and the relevant supervision.
That’s my job, to give transparency, set down rules, governance, put simply, to provide morality where it has been missing for 15 or 20 years, and to get the financial markets to serve the real economy.
You are right we are not there yet.
We’ve made great progress, no market, no person, no product will escape this regulation.
”
Euronews: “ One word about the rating agencies.
They are omnipotent, at least the top three, you tried to address this, but encountered resistance.
For example, you didn’t want countries which were in crisis to be downgraded, but that was not accepted.
You also want, I believe, a European public agency, but the idea was not passed.
How can we regulate rating agencies?
“
Michel Barnier: “ All those involved in financial services, and rating agencies are at the forefront, all stakeholders must be prepared to be guided by public regulation, the ratings agencies just like the others.
So I proposed to reduce dependence on the rates in all our laws to remove any potential conflicts of interest between those who demand rates, those who pay, those who make them, there was too much confusion, we have to have transparent rules.
‘I am not conducting a war against the agencies.
I just think they are too few regulatory bodies they were at fault in the past, we have seen, when they noted the U.S.
toxic assets or when they noticed, correctly banks that went bankrupt a few weeks later.
“
Euronews: “ One last word on the banks.
You are working to make them more robust, is that a guarantee the taxpayer will not have to bail them out as in recent years?
”
6’50 ~~~ Michel Barnier: “ That is precisely the object of the package, the toolkit, that I prepared.
At the moment it is the subject of recent consultations.
I have long thought that prevention is cheaper than repair.
And when you are obliged to repair, you have to be prepared for it.
Being prepared for that is cheaper than improvising or a disorderly bankruptcy which we ask the taxpayer to pay for.
I want the banks to pay for banks when they are in difficulties, and not the taxpayers.
”
</text>
<text>
Getting people in the EU to buy into the European dream, particularly in the midst of the current economic crisis is proving difficult.
However, despite resistance, the EU’s justice chief and Vice President of the Commission Viviane Reding believes that Europe will need the involvement of its citizens to survive.
Euronews spoke to her about the European Commission’s latest public consultation to do this as well as the ongoing political turmoil in Romania.
 ~~~ Paul Hackett, euronews:
Viviane Reding, Vice President of the European Commission, welcome to euronews.
Thanks for joining us. ~~~ I’d like to start with the four month consultation which has been launched by the European Commission.
The stated aim is to find out what problems people face in the EU.
You’ve said the feedback you get will go directly into forming policy in the next few years – but given the existential crisis facing Europe at the moment: what do you realistically hope to achieve with this initiative?
Viviane Reding:
Would you accept that it (public consultation)doesn’t go anywhere near to addressing the big democratic deficit that currently seems to be lying in the heart of Europe?
Viviane Reding:
But, look, the democratic deficit is that citizens so far have the impression, rightly or wrongly so, that they have never been asked their opinion, so it is high time to start this and to build this up.
These are the first steps, because now we will have a whole year of consultation, on the spot, in the cities, in the villages.
And then we will have the European elections, where citizens are again asked to elect their euro-parliamentarians, but this time, knowing why they are electing them. ~~~ euronews:
This is all very well, but it’s going to take time, and the problem Europe seems to be facing at the moment is that it is running out of time: doesn’t it?
Viviane Reding:
That is why we start now at once.
So that when comes the European elections they will know why they vote for this person, to represent them with this idea, in a reinforced European parliament … ..
euronews: ~~~ If I may interrupt you.
You know very well that the turnout at European elections has dropped every time that there has been European elections.
People don’t connect with the European parliament!
Viviane Reding: ~~~ Absolutely.
So the implementation of the voters, of the citizens, into this new Europe is very important.
With them, I hope, and not without them.
euronews:
But when you see the situation across Europe. ~~~ The rise of extremist parties.
Parties like Golden Dawn in Greece. ~~~ Doesn’t it worry you, that the fact is, there isn’t enough democracy.
People don’t feel Europe is accountable anymore and that’s why they are turning to these parties?
Viviane Reding:
And that is exactly why we have to give an answer.
But this answer cannot be theoretical, it cannot be promises.
It has to be very down to earth.
It has to be that politicians are going out and are listening to the people.
They are discussing with the people … …
euronews: Are they listening?
Viviane Reding:
That is exactly what the European citizens is about, but we have start it, and this is the starting point of getting this involvement, and the feeling of belonging and responsibility because people are desperate when they turn to extremists and populists because they feel they are not heard.
Nobody is taking account of what they believe, and that is the reason why we have to go out there and we have to listen to them, and we have to show them that yes we take account of what they believe, of what they dream of and of the Europe they want to construct together.
euronews: ~~~ I’d like to finally turn to Romania.
How concerned are you about the current political turmoil that is currently taking place in the country?
Viviane Reding:
Very much so, and the whole Commission is, and the whole Council is.
And you have seen the reaction which is very clear.
Democracy is a good which needs to be preserved.
We need independent courts.
We cannot dismantle constitutional courts.
And we have to respect what those courts say.
euronews: ~~~ What can Europe really do to make prime minister Victor Ponta stick to his promises?
Viviane Reding:
Well, I think a lot has happened.
The fact that the constitutional court could render its decision and that its decision was applied.
We have, I think, blocked the deviations.
Things are quite now, things are not perfect but a least they didn’t go completely to an extreme. ~~~ euronews:
It’s not quite clear whether prime minister Victor Ponta is really listening!
Viviane Reding: ~~~ He’s a prime minister of a normally elected government.
He has to play his role as a prime minister. ~~~ Every democracy, whoever political party is in power has to respect the democratically constitutional setup of a country, and that is what we were working for.
And I’m very glad to see that the whole the Commission, the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament, all united their voice in order to say no – Democracy is a wholly good and it has to be preserved, whoever is in charge. ~~~ euronews:
When you look back, don’t you think it was a mistake to let countries like Romania into the European Union?
Viviane Reding:
The Europeans took an historical decision.
When Europe’s divide was eliminated and when those who had lived under the Communist dictatorship came back to freedom and independence, we told them that our door was open.
Democracy is not an easy endeavour.
Many of us in old Europe had decades in order to know how democracy functions.
Some of the newcomers learn democracy by doing, in some years only.
We have to help them, we have to give them a chance.
Europe is a democratic organisation.
euronews: ~~~ So Europe could live with a dictatorship within it?
Viviane Reding:
No, I do not believe that.
Europe could not do that.
One thing is very clear – Europe is a democratic state.
A state of states and this will continue and be reinforced. ~~~ euronews: Commissioner Reding, thank you very much.
Viviane Reding: You’re welcome.
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/opinion/your-rights-your-future/
</text>
<text>
Russia in recent weeks has clashed with the European Union and the United States over international policies.
Of key note are the civil war in Syria and an American step to impose sanctions on Russian officials implicated in human rights abuses.
Here we interview Russia’s top diplomat, Sergey Lavrov.
Alexander Shashkov, euronews: “ What is the most important theme among those to be taken up at the EU-Russia summit, in your opinion?
”
Sergey Lavrov, Russian Foreign Minister: “ Traditionally, the backbone of everything in which we cooperate has been the dialogue on energy.
We have now reached an advanced phase, very confident of cooperation, which envelops several aspects of European energy security.
The Nord Stream pipeline is already operational, both conduits having the potential for opening up supplementary ones.
We’ve launched construction of South Stream, which has already been declared as a project of national importance by several EU countries, so I think that we’re moving steadily toward heightened energy security for the whole European continent.
euronews: “ So, you will be discussing economic questions especially?
”
Lavrov: “ In talking about the economy, we will also discuss what surrounds a new EU-Russia Framework Agreement, even though that is broader than the economy on its own.
We cannot proceed further in our cooperation in relation to our joining the World Trade Organisation as things currently stand, but in the future – and President Putin has said this several times – we are ready to move towards a free trade zone or more developed forms of integration.
Our leader has even proposed a principle of creating a unifying economic and human space from the Atlantic to the Pacific.
Another sphere of cooperation that has great potential is in international policy-making, before anything else: settling crises.
euronews: “ The crisis grabbing most of the attention now is in Syria.
To what extent do Russia’s and Europe’s positions coincide; how are they evolving on this crisis, notably since the unification of the opposition and its recognition by France and the US?
”
Lavrov: “ Right now I consider it most realistic as a position to ask both parties in the conflict for an immediate halt to the violence, and a start to negotiations with no prior conditions.
This has been our position from the beginning of the conflict.
We are working with the regime and with all the groups of the opposition, without exception, and we are telling them all the same thing: you have to think of your people, of your country; agree on a cease-fire, sit down at the negotiating table, name the delegates who will conduct the talks, and agree on a mechanism for transition from the old system towards something new, more democratic and more open, which your state is going to need.
“ But our Western partners, sadly, are concentrating exclusively on the victory of the opposition, and they tell us that if Assad left we could then begin to negotiate.
Well, one has to choose one’s priorities: if you want to save lives, they have to be gathered around the table without preconditions.
If your priority is to overthrow Bashar al Assad, you have to set out based on the principle that that’s going to take some more time, entailing a high number of new victims among ordinary Syrians.
And the attempts to present things, as if it only needed Russia to say the word and Assad would leave at once: these are pure provocation, gone about the wrong way.
euronews: “ But you admit the possibility of an opposition victory, of the departure of Bashar al Assad?
”
Lavrov: “ You know, there won’t be any winners.
It’s a war of mutual destruction.
Horrible things are happening now in and around the Palestinian refugee camps.
They are trying to drag the Palestinians into this internal war.
The Palestinians are split. ~~~ Some support the regime, and the others, the opposition – and what’s more either one group or another in the opposition.
This crater is being stuffed deeper and deeper with new layers of the population, including, now, the Palestinians.
There won’t be any winners in this war, and I think that everyone is perfectly conscious of it.
But once they have said, ‘we won’t talk to Assad’, these people themselves are stuck in a trap they don’t know how to get out of.
A war of attrition?
History is full of examples, and nothing good ever came out of one.
euronews: “ And is Russia ready to recognise the united Syrian opposition?
”
Lavrov: “ But we don’t need to recognise or not recognise whomsoever it might be. ~~~ We work with all the groups without exception, of those who represent whatever current of the Syrian opposition.
In the same way we are going to work – we are ready to work – with the National Coalition or any other configuration which may appear on the political playing field, on the opposition side.
The importance lies not in giving or withholding recognition but in pushing everyone in the same direction.
And if recognition of one group is used only to gamble on that group, whether it’s with money, weapons or political or moral support, well, that is an intrusion in the conflict, taking sides.
euronews: “ Another question about primary news events which perhaps chafes at Russia’s relations with Western partners is the US Magnitsky Act.
Now the Russian Duma is debating how to respond.
Have you, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, been consulted as to how to react to the Magnitsky law?
Lavrov: “ I consider it entirely normal that our members of parliament adopt measures in response.
And they are not following a principle along the lines: ‘here’s an unresolved problem, an unfinished process, let’s interfere in their internal affairs’.
No, they are responding to concrete facts on which the American justice system has already ruled, notably the dismissal of charges or granting of bail to American citizens who killed, raped or tortured children adopted from Russia.
euronews: “ But is that to say adoption of Russian children by American families must be banned outright, the more so seeing that the MPs are now interpreting the law more broadly?
”
Lavrov: “ If the adoptions are stopped it signifies one thing: we would have to denounce agreements with the Americans on cooperation in the field of international adoption.
But if we do that, we lose all legal possibility of asking for access to our children over there.
That might be a good reason for measuring just how far we go in our reaction. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ How will Russia react if an EU country sanctions a Russian official along the lines of the Magnitsky law?
”
Lavrov: “ Again, that’s a choice to face, like in Syria, about what your priorities are.
Is it saving lives or regime change?
This is the same. ~~~ If your goal is to achieve concrete improvements in the field of human rights, then let’s work calmly, specifically and without noise.
If your goal is just that, to make noise, then just say that’s what you want to do: make noise without accomplishing anything. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Plantu is one of France’s best known cartoonists, having been drawing for the national daily Le Monde for the best part of 30 years. ~~~ 
Euronews caught up with him in Brussels where he was promoting a documentary about political cartoonists, some of whom risk their lives to get their views across.
‘Caricaturistes – Fantassins de la Démocratie’ will come out in Belgium on October 8.
 ~~~ Audrey Tilve for euronews: “ This documentary, is it the continuation of the work you started in 2006 when you founded the association Cartooning for Peace with the UN?
This association now has 109 cartoonists in it, I think.
And you are one of the 12 who appear in the film.
How were the other 11 chosen?
Why did you chose them?
Plantu: “ I left the decision to the director, Stéphanie Valloatto, and the producer, Radu Mihaileanu.
They knew my work and wanted to highlight what we have in common, us cartoonists.
So they moved between an artist from Burkina like Damien Glez or someone from Ivory Coast or this artist from Ramallah, a Palestinian.
It wasn’t a case of an in-club of cartoonists who all think the same way.
No, they think freely, like journalists.
So it should resonate with journalists and especially with the people of the planet who hear all the debates and subjects which are touched on in the film ‘Caricaturistes – Fantassins de la démocratie’.
Euronews: “ The trailer features a Syrian cartoonist who had his fingers broken.
Your association Cartooning for Peace, is a network of artists, it highlights their work, but can it protect them? ~~~ ”
Plantu: “ When the Syrian cartoonist Ferzat, was tortured, they put a plastic bag over his head and systematically broke all his fingers.
He was in plaster for months, obviously, as we see in the film.
We have the means to make this known.
And when he comes to Europe, or elsewhere, and he takes part in debates it really spotlights his resistance work.
The word fantassin (soldier) in the title really reflects that.
” ~~~ Euronews: “ Moving onto a very current issue in the news, which is in all our thoughts, including in yours … Islamic State.
Here is a cartoon you drew recently.
We see the leader of a petrol-rich monarchy tossing dollars at Obama to pay for his coalition against the jihadist group.
We understand that you’re denouncing a sort of hypocrisy.
But who are the hypocrites: the Gulf monarchies like Saudi Arabia who have sponsored the Salafi Movement for years, or the West which has looked the other way?
Plantu: “ These questions have exactly the answers you expect.
It’s true that the advantage of working for Le Monde is that I can pick up my phone and tell my editor I’m fed up with the Arab League.
Yet again we’re going to say that the Americans are intervening in Arab countries, in Iraq, and as for them, what are they doing?
They’re sleeping, what are they doing?
This guy asleep on the cushions, he has to understand that three quarters of the world’s Muslims are moderates.
And what’s he doing?
Sometimes he hangs out with guys who are a little less moderate.
And suddenly Obama picks up his phone and says: Hey it would be good if you come and help us in Iraq.
But the guy, he’s juggling three lots of people, but OK!
Let’s go!
” ~~~ Euronews: “ Here’s another of your cartoons, on another serious subject. ~~~ The Ebola outbreak in West Africa.
This epidemic started at the beginning of the year and it’s only now that the international community is properly mobilising.
Is it because the outbreak is in Africa that we have taken so long to react? ~~~ ”
Plantu: “ Of course.
That’s why, at Cartooning for Peace, we are in touch with all the cartoonists in Sub-Saharan Africa, because they give out enormous amounts of information.
Of course, there is political drawing, and drawing on the web, in the newspapers, and then all the drawings by artists working for health organisations, for Unicef, the UN, etc who try to promote the work of these wonderful people who are in contact with Africans. ~~~ ”
Euronews: “ And can you explain this next drawing? ~~~ I’ll just say in two words that it’s about Ukraine and perhaps about the way Europeans look at what is happening, and then let you take over.
Plantu: “ I think that as Europeans, we have something to say about Kyiv, about Ukrainians.
But also, I have to say, you know a while back they caught onto things and then they said: ‘We’re going to ban speaking Russian’.
Me, I thought they were mad.
Banning Russian!
And that’s just what the others were waiting for and bam!
And that’s why I drew them a bit alike, because I think there are great people standing right beside people who love Russian culture and the Russian language in Ukraine, there are great people on the Kyiv side who are trying to push a lovely idea of Ukrainian democracy and then there are idiots on both sides.
And I think that sometimes we Europeans have palled up with people who only want one thing, to flatten the Russians, but I don’t want to do that at all.
I don’t like Putin, I don’t like his politics, but at the same time, we’ve made fools of the Russians several times.
We made them swallow a lot in Libya, when we intervened, and so you have to understand how the Russians think and sometimes we fall into cliches.
Euronews: “ We can’t not talk about the EU, which you have often attacked.
And you did a drawing about it in a drawing in 2001.
So 13 years later, is the EU still a snail [as you depicted it then]? ~~~ ”
Plantu: “ Yes it is, absolutely.
And OK, now there are 28 member states and since 1945 there’s been no war between us.
And perhaps that’s because we have this thing called the European Community?
Now, it’s called the EU and that’s the reason I go on taunting the European Commission.
And I’m working closely with European leaders so that in two years, and I think this is really worthwhile, we’re going to have a meeting of 28 cartoonists from all the 28 member states, because it’s true that we have to tease European leaders, and it’s also true that we have lots to say about the why, how and how much we love Europe despite it all. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Artur Mas, the head of the autonomous Catalan government in Spain, is at the forefront of a campaign to hold a referendum on independence from Spain on November 9. ~~~ 
The government of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy in Madrid opposes independence for Catalonia and has rejected the idea of a referendum.
The Spanish parliament is set to vote against the plebiscite in a debate on April 8.
Artur Mas, who is backed by secessionists and the Greens, spoke to euronews’ Vicenc Batalla in Barcelona about this key question for all of Europe.
euronews Artur Mas, what are the chances of an independence referendum taking place on November 9 and that Catalonia will become independent one day.
Artur Mas There are possibilities.
The Catalan government and myself will do the maximum to ensure that this referendum, for which there is a large consensus in Catalonia, will go ahead as agreed on November 9 2014.
We’re putting in place all the conditions needed to make it possible.
And I expect that there won’t be any categorical or radical opposition on the part of the Spanish institutions that would seek to prevent the peaceful and democratic staging of this referendum, or consultation, which, by the way, will be held legally, in agreement with a law, a Spanish law or a Catalan law.
That’s what we’re in the process of clarifying at the moment.
euronews Why do you think David Cameron agreed to a referendum on Scottish independence while Mariano Rajoy would not accept one for Catalonia?.
Artur Mas Probably in the UK there’s a more profound democratic will than in Spain.
I regret that because I would love to say that in Spain there is the same talent for democracy or the same feeling for democracy, or democratic will.
Spain is undoubtedly a democracy. ~~~ But it doesn’t have the same depth as British democracy.
That’s the reality.
I think that Prime Minister Cameron recognised that in Scotland a parliament had been voted in with a popular mandate to hold a referendum.
He democratically accepted the verdict of the Scottish.
He never thought of denying that Scotland was a nation.
In Spain it’s denied that Catalonia is a nation.
That’s the first big mistake because that vision is contrary to what history tells us, as we can see from the walls of this palace (where the interview is taking place) dating from the beginning of the 15th century and which has always been the seat of the Catalan government when we’ve won freedom and democracy.
This vision is also against the will of the majority of Catalan citizens.
euronews The question of whether Catalonia stays within the EU or not if it becomes independent is going to heavily influence voters’ opinion.
The European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso says an independent Scotland, like Catalonia, would have to leave the Union and ask to be re-admitted.
Artur Mas Yes, but in saying that they didn’t say what the precedents were, because there are none.
They didn’t say that in the EU treaties, and more precisely in the Lisbon Treaty, there’s no consideration of such a case.
It’s not been considered simply because they never thought that one day it would come about.
Consequently, there’s nothing in writing.
They don’t say what will happen to the rights of citizenship held for many many years by Scottish citizens or Catalans; citizenship rights that can’t be annulled or swept aside overnight.
And, above all, one thing they didn’t say; in the case of an exit, under what conditions can we be reintegrated?
Do we come back as countries that were never part of the European Union and that have never put in place the Union’s norms and rules?
Under what conditions?
Or will there be totally different conditions, negotiated and with an agreement for citizens who are already in the Union and submit to all the rules?
And for those who, like Catalonia, are net contributors to the EU and want to stay inside it?
euronews Is an independent Catalonia economically possible?
Are business leaders asking you to push ahead with the process or rather, in fact, go backwards?
Artur Mas Both, actually.
There are entrepreneurs who have interests all over Spain and those who have less.
The more interests you have in all of Spain, the more the process is a conflict for you.
Entrepreneurs who have fewer interests, who export more and are less dependent on the Spanish market have a different view.
Who fears this process?
No one should be afraid!
It’s true that some are trying to instill fear from the outside.
Many! ~~~ And particularly some media in Madrid who never stop this campaign of fear.
They never stop!
But in Catalonia, we see much more emotional detachment because we can see that all they’re trying to do is divide us and break up the majority for the referendum.
euronews In your search for allies in Europe, France could play an important role because there’s a part of France where they speak Catalan, at Perpignon.
What do you think the French reaction would be if independence is achieved in Catalonia?
Artur Mas I don’t know!
I can’t tell you.
You know very well that France is above all a centralist state.
That is a principle that’s broadly accepted in France.
Not by everybody, but the majority.
In Spain it’s different, very different.
In Spain there are two or three national realities, which don’t exist in the same way in France.
These are realities that have always been resisted here.
Moreover – and this is very important – what’s happening in Catalonia is not destined to be replicated in other parts of Europe.
There’s the situation in Scotland, but that too is very particular.
There are not a lot of European nationality issues that can be compared to what’s happening in Catalonia. ~~~ And certainly no such situation exists in France.
From that point of view I think France has nothing to fear because the Catalan process is very particular.
It’s a very specific process. ~~~ And, I stress, there are no similar situations in the majority of the territories on the continent of Europe.
euronews At the moment there’s a very significant and potentially violent situation in Crimea between Russia and Ukraine.
When the Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Garcia Margallo made a negative comparison between the situation in Crimea and Catalonia what did you think?
And also, what do you think when Russian TV refers to Catalonia to justify the referendum organised in Crimea?
Artur Mas Look, the comparisons used in Russia are part of a scenario because they need all kinds of justifications to be able justify what’s been happening there.
They make kinds of comparisons!
What surprised me most, was what the Spanish minister of foreign affairs said.
For me, it’s crazy to make a comparison between Catalonia and Crimea.
I think it’s crazy because they are totally different situations.
In Crimea there wasn’t a government elected with a mandate to convene a referendum. ~~~ In Catalonia, yes.
In Crimea, there is no lack of pressure. ~~~ And, in Catalonia, there is no kind of pressure. ~~~ In Catalonia, there is a total pacifism, real democracy, an elected government with a mandate to convene a democratic consultation.
Really, there’s no comparison.
</text>
<text>
As the Nobel Awards are about to be handed out in Stockholm, Sweden euronew’s Isabelle Kumar caught up with Economics Prize winner Professor Christopher Sims, who has been recognised along with fellow professor Thomas Sargent.
Both are from the US and received the prestigious award for the research they carried out independently back in the 1970s and 1980s on cause and effect in the macro economy.
Isabelle Kumar, euronews: “ Christopher Sims, many thanks for joining us on euronews.
Sadly Thomas Sargent cannot be with us today due to illness but I think you can speak for him also when you tell me briefly why you were jointly awarded a Nobel prize. ~~~ ”
Professor Christopher Sims: “ Tom was awarded the prize for his work on an idea called rational expectations, which is the idea that people look to the future when making decisions today.
And at the time that he did his work this apparently common sense notion was not actually incorporated in the models that were being used to guide policy.
And this really changed the way models for economic policy were done. ~~~ 
“ What I did was not really related to rational expectations, except indirectly.
At the time that I wrote, there was a controversy between people called monetarists and people called Keynsians – these are two branches of economics.
The monetarists thought that the money supply drove the economy and that recessions and economic fluctuations were largely caused by mistakes in monetary policy.
The Keynsians thought that monetary policy was not the main force pushing the business cycle.
I did work that helped develop statistical methods that would untangle this issue. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Let’s zoom out now and look at the euro zone crisis which is obviously dominating headlines and has done so for months; in your opinion how close is the euro zone to meltdown? ~~~ ”
Professor Christopher Sims: “ I think it’s on the edge.
I wrote a paper in around 2002 and it talked about the likelihood that there would be a crisis like this.
At the time I said and I think it is still true, that even though we don’t know the answer to the question, the question will be do people want to preserve the euro enough that they are willing to construct, on the fly, the fiscal institutions that are necessary, or is the euro weak enough in its political support that it’s going to fall apart. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Anything that takes place in Europe takes some time to be put into place – it moves quite slowly, so what if in the meantime Italy just becomes insolvent – what would be the knock-on effect from that? ~~~ ”
Professor Christopher Sims: “ The ECB can prevent Italy from becoming insolvent, what it can’t prevent is the ECB from becoming insolvent.
The ECB couldn’t actually become insolvent because they can print money, but if their balance sheet goes bad, they could be forced to inflate.
The ECB can raise money by printing money, but if the ECB is forced to do that it could cause inflation which is what the Germans are worried about.
” ~~~ euronews: “ So, we don’t know how long it will take us to emerge from this crisis, but as we do emerge, are we going to see a new world order settle into place where the once dominant nations of the world, are going to be put on the back foot as we have these strong emerging markets. ~~~ ”
Professor Christopher Sims: “ No I don’t think so, China is growing very fast but its workers are nowhere near as well educated, its political system is primitive in many ways, and we have the history of other countries who have grown fast as they catch up with the West and then slow down.
And there can be terrible adjustments as things slow down, as in Japan.
Now in the euro area, there could be big changes according to whether this becomes a dividing line between a period when it’s moving towards union, and a period when it’s moving apart again.
I think as it moves towards greater union in Europe, Europe could be tremendously more powerful and would benefit. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ It’s said that when the US sneezes the rest of the world, including Europe, catches a cold, It seems now that the boot is on the other foot, and the US is tremendously worried about the unfolding euro zone crisis.
What’s at stake for the States? ~~~ ”
Professor Christopher Sims: “ If the euro area crashes there will be more big losses.
Many banks and financial institutions will be in trouble, and we just don’t know how much that will translate into trouble for US financial institutions.
” ~~~ euronews: “ What’s your take on the situation? ~~~ ”
Professor Christopher Sims: “ My take is I have no idea what is going to happen.
And I am worried that it could create, for example, a double dip recession in the US if there were a European collapse because it would probably have knock-on effects on US financial institutions.
” ~~~ euronews: “ You teach university students – the next generation of decision-makers in years to come.
How do you see their world?
” ~~~ Professor Christopher Sims: “ When we compare the situation of young people today to the situation of young people 80 or 100 years ago, there is nothing to complain about.
There’s lots of good things that have happened in the world since then and I think people will go on being ingenious and finding ways to create new political institutions, and new technologies, so I’m optimistic.
</text>
<text>
On behalf of Ms Nasrin Sotoudeh, an Iranian lawyer currently in prison, Nobel peace laureate Shirin Ebadi has accepted this year’s Sakharov Prize for freedom of thought.
The prize was jointly awarded to Iranian film director, Jafar Panahi.
We asked Ebadi about human rights in Iran.
Hossein Alavi euronews:
“ What message will the awarding of the European Parliament’s Sakharov Prize to Nasrin Sotoudeh and Jafar Panahi give, and what impact might it have for Iran? ~~~ ”
Shirin Ebadi:
“ The message is that the world is aware of the peaceful struggle of the people towards achieving democracy and respect for human rights.
Also important is that it shows the world how individual and political freedoms in Iran are restricted.
This is to the extent that a famous film director who has been planning to make a film was arrested and sentenced to a long term in prison before even finishing the film and even before screening.
“ Also, Ms Nasrin Sotoudeh, a lawyer, is sentenced to six years in prison and banned from practising law for 20 years.
This shows what is going on in Iran.
euronews:
“ In the past, you have emphasized that the West should pay attention to human rights in Iran and the safety of its people, as well as to its nuclear programme.
What, specifically, do you expect from the European Union?
” ~~~ Ebadi:
“ The European Union should extend the list of the individuals it has subjected to sanctions due to human rights violations.
It should also go for sanctions that do not harm the people but rather aim at weakening the regime.
My clear proposal is that the Iranian government should not be able to misuse European television satellites to spread hatred and lies.
Also, EU representatives should go to Iran for the upcoming elections there, to supervise.
euronews:
“ Last month, the death of Iranian blogger Sattar Beheshti while under interrogation in prison, was perceived by Iranians and world public opinion as a blatant case of a human rights violation.
At some stage, even the judiciary took an interest.
But it seems that this is being attributed to a simple case of error by a government official.
How can the Iranian judiciary be held accountable?
” ~~~ Ebadi:
“ The most important problem is that Iran’s judiciary system has lost its independence. ~~~ It has turned into a department of the Intelligence Ministry.
Unfortunately, security officials can dictate whatever they wish. ~~~ The judges in charge of such cases just sign and enforce the orders.
It is important that we retrieve the independence of the judiciary system and this is not possible unless its legal structure is completely changed.
euronews:
“ The mission of the UN special rapporteur on human rights in Iran Ahmed Shaheed is still unclear.
Iranian officials have not yet allowed him to visit Iran.
What measures can the UN take?
” ~~~ Ebadi:
“ The United Nations has understood well that the Iranian government’s intentions are to cover things up, and that is why it is not giving Mr Shaheed a visa.
Take, for example, the type of elections that are held in Iran.
The Iranian authorities pretend they are free elections.
 ~~~ “ Representatives should go and oversee the upcoming elections and see if the presidential elections follow the guidelines of free, healthy and fair elections or not.
The Iranian government is a signatory of the guidelines approved by the Inter-parliamentary union.
These envoys should see if the elections are compatible with human rights conventions which Iran has also signed.
euronews:
“ In Iran’s prisons there are journalists, lawyers and human rights activists: Mrs Sotoudeh, Abdolfattah Soltani, Ahmad Zeidabadi, Issa Saharkhiz and Mohammad-Seddigh Kaboudvand. ~~~ But there are also dozens of other political prisoners whose names are unknown. ~~~ According to human rights activists, they and their families are under great pressure.
What measures are activists and international communities taking regarding this group of prisoners?
” ~~~ Ebadi:
“ We should repeat the names of these people and they should be supported everywhere and in every way possible.
For example, awarding them prizes can bring them into the limelight.
One of these unknown people who is in the worst condition is Mr Javeed Houtan-Kian, the lawyer of Sakineh Mohammadi, the woman who was sentenced to death by stoning and whose stoning verdict has not been enforced, following international pressure.
 ~~~ “ But her main lawyer, Mr Javeed Houtan-Kian has been sentenced to six years in prison.
He has been in jail in the city of Tabriz for more than two years and he has been under the most severe physical and psychological pressures.
This brave lawyer needs to be supported.
euronews:
“ A considerable number of individuals were executed in Iran this year – and this is according to the Islamic Republic of Iran’s official reports.
Human rights activists have been expressing concern over drug accusations, and fear that some political dissidents might have been executed.
Are the United Nations Human Rights Council and other international fora aware of this concern?
” ~~~ Ebadi:
“ Unfortunately, no announcement is made for many of those who are executed.
The question remains whether they are drug smugglers or if there have been dissidents among them.
We protest against such executions. ~~~ Our strongest protest is that the judiciary holds trials for them behind closed doors.
“ Specifically, two months ago, news came from the medical examiner that four women had been stoned and their bodies was seen by the coroners.
When were they stoned?
How were they tried?
How can such punishments be enforceable in the 21st century?
These are questions that Iranian lawyers are asking, for which, unfortunately, the regime has no answer. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Mykola Azarov became Ukraine’s prime minister in March 2010.
Since then his premiership has come under sharp focus in Europe and beyond with concerns over the treatment of former PM Yulia Tymoshenko who is currently serving a seven year prison sentence on charges of abuse of office.
Mykola Azarov spoke with Euronews correspondent, Sergio Cantone. ~~~  ~~~ Sergio Cantone euronews: “ Prime minister welcome to euronews.
There are a lot of concerns in the EU, especially among the EU leaders about the situation concerning the rule of law in Ukraine, Merkel, the chancellor of Germany compared Ukraine to a dictatorship, compared Ukraine to Belarus, so what is your idea about it?
Mykola Azarov, Ukraine’s Prime Minister: “ Just a few days spent in Ukraine, or maybe more, would be enough for anyone to be sure that there’s no dictatorship in Ukraine, and neither is there any political repression.
Democratic political parties are active in Ukraine, some of them are represented in the parliament, some of them not.
We have total freedom of expression.
I personally regard (Mrs.
Merkel’s) remark to be politically incorrect.
It doesn’t help to strengthen bilateral relations between Germany and Ukraine, and moreover, between Ukraine and the EU as a whole.
 ~~~ Euronews: “ Don’t you think that you have to find a way out from this situation that is putting your country in a terrible stalemate vis-à-vis your partners in the west?
” ~~~ Mykola Azarov: “ Mrs.
Tymoshenko was not convicted for her political beliefs. ~~~ She was convicted for forging an official document called the Directive of the Ukraine’s government.
Using this forged document she made (her subordinates) sign a very unfavourable and detrimental contract for gas supplies with Russia.
” ~~~ Euronews: “ So, anyway, you think that the EU leadership is drawing conclusions based on wrong legal information about the situation in this country?
Mykola Azarov: “ I’ve asked a simple question about her actions. ~~~ Was it a political decision or a crime?
And I would like the respected European lawyers to answer this question.
Euronews: “ They already gave the answer and it is that this is a politically motivated judgement, they say that the Ukrainian government, the current Ukrainian power wants to get rid of an inconvenient opposition leader, Yulia Tymoshenko, that is their position. ~~~ ”
Mykola Azarov: “ I would like to once again point out all the circumstances related to the case.
I wonder whether the European leaders have full information about it.
We are ready to provide such information.
It is an irrefutable fact.
So there is a question: was the investigation politically motivated, or was it called for by huge losses sustained by our country because of her actions? ~~~ ”
Euronews: “ Prime minister I understand but don’t you think that there is also the fact that there is a lack of trust in the Ukrainian justice system abroad as well as in Ukraine?
” ~~~ Mykola Azarov: “ That’s precisely why we’ve undertaken a huge task of reforming our judicial system.
A new Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine will come into effect that would broaden the citizens’ rights.
This is why we wage a real war against corruption.
The scale of this fight is significantly wider than, say, two years ago.
It’s really a huge fight against corruption.
We are trying to deregulate the economy because we see the problem and we do our best to create a favourable investment climate in Ukraine.
And we will succeed!
Euronews: “ Are you going to surprise, in some way, somehow the rest of Europe by probably letting Tymoshenko go treat her health problem abroad?
” ~~~ Mykola Azarov: “ Let us not jump the gun.
She is now undergoing treatment which will enable us to understand whether any further medical help is required.
After that, if there is a conclusion by competent and authoritative medical bodies that adequate treatment cannot be provided in Ukraine, but can be granted at some facility outside Ukraine, only then could Ukraine’s leadership can consider such a possibility, based, which I want to stress, purely on humanitarian grounds.
It is clear though, that such a decision would require changes in appropriate laws and regulations. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
As Britain prepared to host the G8 Summit, euronews reporter Ali May spoke to the British Prime Minister David Cameron. ~~~ 
Ali May; euronews: “ The Syrian crisis is at a turning point.
Aggressive tax evasion by big corporations seems to be endemic.
Millions of people every day suffer from hunger. ~~~ Meanwhile Britain hosts the G8 summit.
What does David Cameron make of these issues?
We are here to find out.
” ~~~ “ Hello Prime Minister.
Is it naive to think the western powers can identify the moderate rebels in Syria and that military backing will not fall into the hands of extremists? ~~~ ”
David Cameron; British Prime Minister: “ No, I think it is vital we do work with the moderate opposition in Syria, the national coalition that came together that supports a democratic Syria, that supports human rights, that wants to have a Syria that is for everyone, including the minorities, including Christians in Syria, that we work with them, we help them, that we train them, we advise them, because if we don’t do that there will only be extremist elements to the opposition – extremist elements I would like to see driven out of Syria altogether.
So I think it is very important we work with the proper official opposition, otherwise we will only be left with extremists.
euronews: “ But of course Russia is very much opposed to arming the rebels.
What will you tell President Putin when you shake his hand at G8?
Cameron: “ Well as I said to President Putin, we had very good discussions in Sochi in Russia recently.
And although we have a different perspective on this, I think in the end we all want the same thing, which is a Syria that is at peace with its neighbours, that has a government that can represent its people, and we need a peace conference and a transition to bring that about.
And I think it is important that everybody understands that President Assad can’t win this by military means.
There has to be a transitional process.
euronews: “One of your major priorities at this G8 is tax dodging, but arguably…”
Cameron: “ My priority is cracking down on tax dodging, let’s get that one straight.
euronews: “ What’s important also is that most major tax havens are British territories.
Cameron: “ First of all, that is not true.
That is simply not the case and if you look at what are called the Crown Dependencies and the Overseas Territories of the United Kingdom they have now signed up to the exchange of tax information – to taking action to uncover the beneficial ownership of companies registered in those places – and I think it is quite wrong anyway to say that they have been the ones who are holding up progress.
Here we are on euronews, for years in Europe there was no proper exchange of tax information.
Countries like Austria and Luxembourg blocked it year, after year, after year.
They have only stopped blocking it because I put tax and transparency at the top of the G8 agenda, that led to a European Council where Europe took action, where those countries removed their block and now proper tax cooperation will take place.
So we should make sure we get our facts right before pointing any fingers. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ It is very interesting because Britain has been losing billions in tax dodging, but the time is interesting, why are you putting so much emphasis on it now?
Cameron: “ Well, because I think it is the right agenda and not just for wealthy countries.
I think most of all this is the right agenda for the developing world.
Unlike many countries in the world, Britain has kept her promises about aid to the poorest countries in the world.
We made promises, we kept our promises.
Many others in Europe did not do that and I think that, therefore, gives us the permission to say now is the time to move on to a fresh agenda , which is about making sure companies pay their taxes, making sure companies are transparent about the payments they make to governments for minimal rights and the like.
And this agenda, I think, will help the developing world because they suffer from tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance, but it will also help the developed world, the West as well.
euronews: “ But how are you going to make sure those big multi-nationals, that you have been very clearly criticising recently, are going to pay their fair share of tax. ~~~ ”
Cameron: “ Well what we are going to do is two things, basically.
The first is making sure there is an effective exchange of information between tax authorities.
That is absolutely vital.
The second thing is making sure all companies are taking action to have, in our case, a register of beneficial ownership so you can see who owns every company.
Because, if you do that, you have the exchange of information and you can see who owns what.
Then you are much more likely to get companies to pay their taxes in a way that is fair and right.
So those two steps – we will be making further steps at the G8 I believe, on Monday or Tuesday next week – those two steps will make a big difference.
euronews: “ In the summit when you shake hands with François Holland and Angela Merkel, and you have advocated closer ties within the G8, but you are aware that Europe has been watching with worry at all this anti-EU rhetoric in Britain.
So how do you reconcile these?
And what do you tell your European colleagues when the cameras are off? ~~~ ”
Cameron: “ What I say to my European colleagues is what I say to the British people as well, which is: we want to have good cooperation in Europe; we want to have good relations in Europe; but we need reform of the European Union.
To somehow pretend that anti-European rhetoric only exists in Britain is a complete fiction.
Go and listen to people on the streets of Madrid, or on the streets of Paris, or on the streets of Athens and find out what they think about the European Union right now, they are not satisfied with it.
The European Union is not working properly right now.
It needs reform, it needs to be more open, it needs to be more flexible.
We need to be more competitive, we need to have fewer instructions and bossiness from Brussels and more cooperation between nation states.
This is not just a British view, this is a view you find very widely around Europe, that people are not satisfied with the way the European Union works.
My plan is to make reforms in the European Union and then put to the British people a referendum: whether they want to stay in this reformed European Union or leave the European Union.
I believe a reformed European Union will be in Britain’s interest and I have made that case very clearly.
Now I say that to Angela Merkel and François Hollande, whether the cameras are on or the cameras are off.
I say the same thing in private as I say in public, and what is interesting is that actually there are many in Europe who recognise it is time for a debate, it is time for change.
We need to make sure Europe works properly.
” ~~~ euronews: “ You touched on aid and the population of the G8 countries is around 900 million.
That is pretty much the same number of people who sleep hungry every night in the world.
Is there any strong will to tackle this scandal? ~~~ ”
Cameron: “ Yes, I believe there is, as I said.
I think if you go back to Gleneagles in 2005, when the world made lots of promises about aid, some countries like Britain have kept their promises on aid.
We said we would reach 0.7 percent of our Gross National Product going in aid every year.
This year in 2013, on time, we have met that promise.
We have made a promise to the poorest in the world and we have kept it.
And as a result there are millions of children in school, there are millions of children getting vaccinated against diseases, there is widespread availability of anti-retro viral drugs, things that would not have happened if Britain had not kept her promises.
So I think there is across Britain, a very generous people that give money every year to these charities.
So I think there is an appetite to deal with this, there is also – and we should be frank about this – a cynicism and a worry about does the aid go to the right people, is it enough?
And the answer is on its own.
It is not enough and that is why we need this agenda, companies need to pay their taxes properly, we need more transparency about government contracts and what happens to the money.
We need to advocate those things instead of just giving aid.
</text>
<text>
As Belarus continues efforts to broker a lasting settlement to the conflict in Ukraine President Alexander Lukashenko has been speaking to Euronews’ Kyiv bureau chief Sergio Cantone, in an exclusive interview in Minsk about his role as a potential mediator.
euronews
“ Mr President, are you concerned by what is going in your neighboring country Ukraine, by the tension, the war and the violence, and have you any solution, any proposal as a way out of the situation?
”
Alexander Lukashenko ~~~ “ These events are happening near our borders, to our brothers, to our people. ~~~ If I were to be told today, ‘Listen Mr.
Lukashenko, there is trouble in Ukraine, something has to be done. ~~~ Are you ready and capable of doing it?’ I would have to try.
I think that if there is a desire from Ukraine, Russia and the West, then within a year even in this case, the situation can be stabilised.
”
euronews ~~~ “ I am sure that our viewers are interested in knowing the content of this plan … ”
Alexander Lukashenko ~~~ “ Let me tell you, this is a very dangerous and terrible thing: if there is mistrust of the West in Russia, of Russia in the West, of the USA in Russia and of Russia in the USA and mistrust among the warring parties, I would have been ready to use my armed forces to separate the warring parties.
“ That is if we are talking about the conflict.
If we are talking broadly about stabilization of the situation in Ukraine then there are, on the grounds of democratic principles, reforms of the constitution and the whole political process to be conducted.
“ While there are oligarchs in Ukraine, who by the way, have their own armed forces, whose interests are far beyond the borders of Ukraine, whose money is not in Ukraine, who can at any moment move out of Ukraine.
They have nothing in common with the people of Ukraine.
euronews ~~~ “ Would you be ready to recognize the Donetsk People’s Republic and the Lugansk People’s Republic?
Alexander Lukashenko ~~~ “ No, no we maintain an absolutely different position: we would not want the disintegration of the Ukrainian state.
Here, many are saying that Crimea’s integration with Ukraine was not correct, that it was indigenously a Russian territory and so on… this is the wrong approach.
”
euronews ~~~ “ Are you sure that you are an honest broker in this conflict?
Because I have the impression that you are just blaming the Ukrainian side and not at all the pro-Russian insurgencies in southeastern Ukraine.
And you did not mention the project of Novorossya, which is still an element of instability in Ukraine.
”
Alexander Lukashenko ~~~ “ Ukraine has become a theatre of military action and a theatre of dispute between the big geopolitical forces, as I’ve said it is not only the West; it is also the East, unfortunately. ~~~ 
“ As for Russia, I think that both the Russians and the West made many mistakes, but initially the bigger responsibility was on the West.
It was not Russia that escalated the conflict in Maidan Square, not Russia which acted there.
But certain officials – and the whole world knows that and we know that because we were nearby – certain officials of the Western states acted openly to instigate confrontation by the participants of Maidan. ~~~ 
“ From the very beginning I declared that I did not recognize this project “ Novorosia ” .
I support the unity and integrity of the Ukrainian state.
There shouldn’t be any frozen conflicts and any zones like Transnistria and Nagorno-Karabakh are always fraught with the danger of exploding.
I do not want that as a person, and as a President of Belarus, as we are situated very close to Ukraine.
”
euronews ~~~ “ The case of Crimea was a typical case of a violation of international law, the violation of territorial integrity of a European country, Ukraine.
And that happened as a consequence of a regime change happened in Kyiv. ~~~ Is it not it?
”
Alexander Lukashenko ~~~ “ No, absolutely not.
Do you mean to say that the events in Crimea, the actions of Russia in Crimea were revenge for the events on Maidan?
Absolutely not.
This was a result of mistakes by the Ukrainian government at that moment.
”
euronews ~~~ “ Don`t you think that this is a kind of civil war within the post-soviet world and that what happened in Ukraine was a kind of shockwave that is now hitting your country, Belarus, your system of governance and the system of governance in Moscow, of the Russian federation and that this is the origin of the huge concern for both countries?
”
Alexander Lukashenko ~~~ “ In the post-Soviet countries people are fed up with democracy.
Now, on the contrary, there is a process going on in which people are more supportive of the concept of a strong state, which will not allow chaos, even more so a civil war, especially after the events in Ukraine.
”
euronews ~~~ “ Does the fact that the people are fed up with democracy, as you`ve said, justify that a part of the political opposition must go and live abroad, or is being the object of particular attention by the power?
”
Alexander Lukashenko ~~~ “ As for the leaders of the opposition, if you are implying those of Belarus, of Ukraine or Russia, probably mostly Russia … we do not push anyone out.
But as you mentioned previously, the law in the country should be respected by everybody including the governing power and the leaders of the opposition.
If you violate the law, you must answer according to the law.
”
</text>
<text>
Greece dominates the headlines when it comes to the European economy.
But the story is bigger than that.
It is also about growth and getting people back into work.
Maithreyi Seetharaman from Euronews caught up with Jyrki Katainen, the Vice President of the European Commission, in charge of Growth, Employment, Competition and Investment.
Maithreyi Seetharaman: “ How flexible is Europe actually in terms of policies?
And is Greece a prime example of that question?
Jyrki Katainen: “ There are only a few countries who can afford to stimulate their economies.
But the best stimulus which all Member States can do now is to carry out reforms.
To really change or reform the country in a way that makes it more flexible, when it comes to the labour market or when talking about how easy their business environment is.
So flexibility and stimulus mean they have to be ready to reform our societies, and many governments are doing this.
Maithreyi Seetharaman: “ Would you say that Greece is not?
Or would you say that maybe Europe is very slow to react, and the Eurogroup meetings, the Troika meetings end up going nowhere? ~~~ ”
Jyrki Katainen: “ Greece has achieved a lot of good things.
If you look at the primary surplus, it is one of the biggest in Europe.
Also, economic growth is very strong.
But now after the elections, the fundamentals of the economy have not changed, and the Eurogroup just took the first step this week.
And they will continue to try and find a solution which is acceptable to all 19 Member States.
So we have to accept the truth that the economy in Greece hasn’t changed even though the government has.
Maithreyi Seetharaman: “ We’re really taking it down to the wire with Greece. ~~~ Is that going to be the situation, that we take our own time and the goal post has moved too much? ~~~ ”
Jyrki Katainen: “ When it comes to European decision making, we are delivering quite fast.
Just a few months ago we said we were going to establish a new investment triangle, with the “ risk ” fund, with the deepening single market and transparent project pipeline, and this is going on.
This spring, many of these pieces in the puzzle will be in place.
But when looking at national reforms, it always takes some time because if you need to make reforms that go very deep in your society, it is not easy politically. ~~~ ”
Maithreyi Seetharaman: “ What is a good compromise from your perspective on Greece?
What will hold water with the other countries that are looking at Syriza and worrying about their own internal political situations? ~~~ ”
Jyrki Katainen: “ Greece has been helped by other European tax payers.
And it is clear that they have to continue to make growth-friendly reforms.
Right today it is too early to predict the final outcome.
But the commission is very committed to helping Greece.
We have to make sure that people can get medicines and health care if needed.
So we are on the side of Greek people.
and there are 19 Member States, 19 electorates, 19 governments and parliaments who must accept a help programme, and of course the most important thing is that the Greek government is willing to cooperate. ~~~ ”
Maithreyi Seetharaman: “ If the investment plan is based on growth-related bonds, why should Greece at the same time not propose growth related bonds?
Jyrki Katainen: “ The Greek authorities must make sure that confidence around the country will increase.
This means they must show the courage to make growth-friendly reforms.
Also they must take care of their fiscal policy because otherwise, if uncertainty grows as it has done in the last few weeks, no one will invest in Greece.
But for instance, a new fund could finance projects, private sector projects in Greece.
Also it has been constructed in such a way that it can take more risks.
But confidence must be at good levels, otherwise nobody will want to invest in Greece.
Maithreyi Seetharaman: “ The investment plan has been on a kind of road show.
What kind of reaction have you got from the investment community, and how realistic is it? ~~~ ”
Jyrki Katainen: “ Well, the feedback has been very encouraging.
First of all we can deliver very fast, so everything should be in place by the end of June.
And we can already start increasing SME lending before that. ~~~ We don’t know the projects yet.
It depends on the private sector because the new funds will finance only private investment and public private partnership.
There have been some questions.
Why we are using such a big figures when talking about leverage, but it is based on the history of EIB lending.
Of course we are interested in resources from outside Europe as well.
And once everything is ready, I will be more than happy to visit different parts of the world.
” ~~~ Maithreyi Seetharaman: “ Do you think the ECB’s quantitative easing program is making it easier for you to sell the investment plan?
Jyrki Katainen: “ It has been very helpful and it has stabilized the situation.
If you look at the monetary policy and you add the cheap Euro and you add the cheap price of oil, all together they create a tremendous stimulus to the eurozone economy.
Maithreyi Seetharaman: “ My final question – what keeps you up at night?
Deflation? ~~~ Greece?
” ~~~ Jyrki Katainen: “ Let’s say the investment plan, because there is so much work to do.
I am not worried about a deflationary spiral at the moment.
I am working very hard for the investment plan because It can make a change.
It will not change the whole world, but it will help private investors to invest in Europe, to invest in real job creation projects all over Europe.
</text>
<text>
UNESCO has welcomed the Palestinians as the 195th member; an historic, yet controversial move that has rocked the organisation.
The Palestinians won their place despite stiff resistance from the US and Israel. ~~~ But it came at a high price. ~~~ 
Bound by two laws that forbid subsidising any organisation that recognises Palestine as a state, Washington cut off funds, sending the UN’s education, scientific and cultural agency into financial freefall.
Euronews’ Andrea Bolitho spoke to Director-General Irina Bokova about the future of UNESCO.
She said: “ The imminent repercussions I would say in financial terms are some difficulties that we have with the financement from the United States.
There are other, wider repercussions, maybe more political; there are those who praise us, those who accuse us.
Let me say that the question for the admission of Palestine in the organisation has been on the agenda for 22 years, it is not something new that came up but apparently member states, this time 107, decided to vote in favour.
” ~~~ euronews: “ What are the financial implications of the vote, how much is UNESCO down? ~~~ ”
Irina Bokova: “ Well, having in mind that the United States contributes 22 percent to the regular budget then they also have between 15 and 20 million extra budgetary resources adding to the 72 million which represents annually the 22 percent.
So we are talking about 100 million per year and then we have also the withholding of funds for 2012 for Israel, so it is quite substantial in terms of our budget.
 ~~~ “ We have to have in mind that the United States have not contributed to the 2011 budget – this year.
I have appealed to Congress and the American people and I do hope this message will pass and Congress will change this law in order to allow us to receive the funding.
euronews: “ So there is a glimmer of hope that UNESCO may in the end get the funding from the US? ~~~ ”
Irina Bokova: “ I hope so, I hope so.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Some of the projects which may be affected if the funding hole isn’t filled could concern the judicial system and water in Iraq; these are projects which are at risk, are there others which are also at risk? ~~~ ”
Irina Bokova: “ First of all these are very important projects, our overall delivery of our programmes in both cases in Iraq and Afghanistan is jeopardised because you can imagine that witholding more than 22 percent, I would say for next year we have to accumulate the loss of this year, it will be more than 30 percent, it will jeopardise our delivery in the field.
“ I would like to mention another such case, it is the work of our Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, which is very heavily involved, it is actually coordinating all the tsunami alert systems.
When there was the tsunami earlier this year, the earthquake and tsunami in Fukushima in Japan we issued the alert in five minutes. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Some saw the vote and subsequent recognition as an abuse of UNESCO’s powers.
Do you think the organisation has overstepped its mandate in making a political decision like this?
” ~~~ Irina Bokova: “ Well, it is difficult for me to decide, it was a decision by member states.
What we regret at this particular moment is precisely this kind of criticism, this tendency to look at everything through the prism of this political decision and to neglect all the other important activities that we do.
” ~~~ euronews: “ I understand that UNESCO started a ‘click and donate’ programme for the public to give money to UNESCO which has not gone particularly well, not an enormous amount of money has been raised?
Irina Bokova: “ I never expected from this ‘donate to UNESCO’ campaign millions of dollars but it is an important citizen support for what UNESCO is doing.
But at the same time we have to know that budgetary contributions from each member state are an obligation, a respect for the organisation and I believe that still the United States will change the law.
” ~~~ euronews: “ UNESCO’s core missions; helping eradicate poverty, education, freedom of expression, with these in mind how is the organisation reacting to the hopes and challenges presented by the Arab Spring?
” ~~~ Irina Bokova: “ We were very enthusiastic here with the Arab Spring because we do believe that it is a legitimate aspiration for more dignity, for more human rights, for better living and since the very first day we accompanied some of these countries on their path towards openness, democracy and different social and political order.
“ Our first projects were to train Tunisian journalists to report on elections because even though they are simple things for many of us nowadays, they lack such experience.
It is important that what we did in Iraq some years ago – supported by the United States – to change the curricula of the text books for children, to take away all the prejudices, all the hostility towards other cultures, religions or the West from Iraqi textbooks.
I think it is very important that we do the same, and we will be doing the same in Libya.
“ And, of course, the big question about the protection of heritage, of culture, of stealing of property, of illicit exports, of trafficking of such precious archaeological cultural objects from Libya, from Egypt, from Tunisia, it’s a huge responsibility that we have.
euronews: “ UNESCO recently added several new cultural traditions to its ‘intangible cultural heritage list’.
How does one protect something that is intangible?
” ~~~ Irina Bokova: “ It’s a very interesting question and let me say that the whole concept of intangible heritage was regarded only as a kind of African concept, but then gradually; I would say all countries in the world saw the merit of preserving this intangible heritage.
This is very much linked to globalisation.
By trying to protect, by respecting, by recognising the importance of even small local traditions, recognising it, we give enormous pride and self-respect to these communities. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Comedian Beppe Grillo has shaken up Italian politics, with his 5 Star Movement party (Movimento 5 Stelle) winning local and administrative polls in the Italian city of Parma and several smaller towns.
Euronews met him in Tuscany.
 ~~~ Beppe Grillo: “ The media show pictures of me taken during my shows, when I of course I’m overacting.
Because that’s my job.
I have to get the audience’s attention.
I can’t whisper.
Look at this frontpage.
He looks serious and I look crazy.
They put these examples of my facial expressions on a front page and then they write: “ Would you let your country be controlled by someone like Grillo?
” So everyone says: “ Of course not!
”
So how have the mainstream media and other political parties reacted to his political success?
Is he serious?
Beppe Grillo: “ They still don’t know how to react to what is happening.
It is not a political revolution, more like a cultural one.
The real leader is the movement and the movement’s programme rather than any physical person.
People should start voting for a programme not a person.
”
But having having attacked professional politicians is Grillo’s movement ready to shoulder social responsibilities and manage real cities?
Beppe Grillo: “ Taking responsibility is a marvellous thing.
We want to.
But we are talking about citizens voting for other citizens who will enter local parliaments and the national government.
Our country is almost economically ruined.
We will take on responsibilities but we will also say: “ We are not magicians, but let’s see what we can do.
” I have toured all of Europe and met young people that have left Italy.
There are millions of them.
They are educated, with MBAs, and they say, “ We cannot come home under these economic circumstances, ” but they are almost in tears as they speak.
We should give these people a chance.
If we start to bring people rather than parties into the national parliament, if we get elected specialists in energy, in transport, in waste, if we bring to the national parliament citizens that have a real and daily relationship with the community … then I bet our well educated young people will come back to Italy.
After Romania we have the biggest diaspora in Europe.
We export well educated people and import less educated workers.
”
The 5 Star Movement’s manifesto is on line.
Beppe Grillo is not alone with his ideas.
Many other European political parties criticise European politics. ~~~ 
Beppe Grillo: “ Our movement has filled a very dangerous vacuum.
We are talking about Greek extremists, about Marine Le Pen’s movement in France, about Hungarian far right movements.
These kind of Fascist movements flourish in a sociopolitical vacuum.
Think about the fact that Italy “ invented ” Fascism and we have exported it throughout the world.
And today, in Italy, instead of having Fascism the vacuum is filled with citizens with no criminal records.
”
Is Europe dead?
Is there any common political future for the continent or is the political end of the European Union nigh?
Beppe Grillo: “ Europe was a marvelous dream invented by Jacques Delors and Willy Brandt but it has failed by trying to putting together economies which were very far away the one from another.
This, and also a currency which shouldn’t have been the same for all.
Two currencies would have been better. ~~~ Otherwise Angela Merkel and Germany could go back to the Deutsche mark and we will have a weaker euro used in South European countries like Greece, Spain, Italy, Portugal, even Ireland.
We could form a “ different ” eurozone.
Let’s sit down and discuss this.
We have nothing to lose.
We have already lost 30% of our economy since joining the euro.
Our economy is imploding because of the lack of confidence in the future.
Firms are failing and the national debt grows instead of shrinking.
”
And what does Beppe Grillo think of ex Italian leader, Silvio Berlusconi?
Beppe Grillo: “ Berlusconi seemed to be eternal.
He left only a short time ago but he still seems like ancient history.
He looks like an even older guy.
He doesn’t use make up any more.
Berlusconi is just something which doesn’t mean anything anymore.
He achieved success thanks to his tv channels.
Once his channels no longer had the monopoly, he fell beause he had built nothing during his public life.
”
But even the Italian President Giorgio Napolitano says that he’s not impressed by Grillo.
Beppe Grillo: “ When he talks about Grillo-ism, or about demagogues, he should be careful because a president should be neutral.
We have now 250 local administrators elected by citizens.
He was chosen by parties, he wasn’t elected by individual citizens.
”
But politics is expensive.
So how is Movimento 5 Stelle funded?
Beppe Grillo: “ We have refused public money.
We had the right to get 1.7 million euros.
It was our right to get this money but we said no.
We have two party members in Emilia Romagna’s and Piemonte’s regional parliaments.
These people have reduced their salaries from 10/12,000 euros per month to 2,500 euros per month.
This is already a good salary for a 25-28 year old person.
We have already done it.
”
So what does Grillo want?
What does he expect from the ruling politicians, the people he says are responsible for the situation in Italy?
Beppe Grillo: “ If you will let me say it on Euronews, because they won’t let me speak on Italian channels, my message to professional politicians is: citizens, thanks to the net, remember.
TV has no memory, but people have.
We do remember who you are.
You cannot leave pretending that everything is all right.
Do not think about taking a holiday on a Carribean island.
Before you go, return the money which you have stolen with some interest and you will be judged by a jury of citizens with no criminal records, and they will tell you what kind of sentence you will be sentenced to.
”
</text>
<text>
Jose Maria Olazabal is one of Spain’s greatest golfing exports.
He has won six PGA tour events and 23 on the European Tour; he is a two-time major winner and has featured in seven Ryder Cups as a player winning four.
In 2012 he captained the European team to an historic comeback win in Chicago for their eighth victory in ten editions.
This week Olazabel won the Prince of Asturias Award for sport and euronews were present to talk to the Ryder Cup hero and golfing legend.
euronews: How do you feel about winning the the Prince of Asturias award for sport, whose recipients include a multitude of sporting greats but only two golfers: Seve Ballesteros and now you?
Olazabal: Well I am proud and delighted, but it’s also a responsibility in the sense as I’m following in the footsteps of Seve.
It’s is very special.
It is unique in a way that not only is it based on your sporting achievements but there are other values ​​that count too, they take into account your personal values.
euronews: We can say that the main reason you have won the Prince of Asturias Award is down to the stunning triumph of the European team in the 2012 Ryder Cup.
How did you achieve that historic victory on September 30?
Olazabal: Well, it was all about the team really.
Dealing with the players trying to get the best out of each player, believing the battle was never over, trying to convince them we could still turn the tide on that Sunday..
to convince the players that they had to play aggressively, to hunt for victory without fear..
all those things eventually came together for us to win the tournament.
euronews: How much of an impact did the late Seve Ballesteros have on this 2012 Ryder Cup team?
Olazabal: A part of the victory was thanks to him, no doubt.
When I was preparing the team the image and the memory of Seve was ever present.
On Sunday, for example, the players were dressed in marine blue and white, Seve’s favourite colours to play in on Sundays and on top of that we had Seve’s image stitched into our shirts and jumpers, as well as the year he was born and the year in which he left us.
Some players like Justin Rose, for example, told me that whilst playing the final day and when things were tight the players would look at their sleeves and would see the image of Severiano..
and that motivated them and gave them strength to keep on fighting.
euronews: You have a very special relationship with this tournament, will you be working with captain Paul McGinley in the next edition of the Ryder Cup?
Olazabal: The Ryder Cup as you have already said is a tournament very close at my heart, if Paul McGinley gives me the chance to be vice-captain or somehow help the team in any way, for sure I will sit down with him and talk.
I’m not saying it will be a yes but I would give it some serious thought. ~~~ 
euronews: There seems to be a trend of players choosing the American PGA Tour over the European Tour.
Why is this and how can we turn this situation around?
Olazabal: I think this is because of the economic situation we are living through in Europe at the moment, in all areas.
It’s harder to get sponsors and in that sense the United States is in better shape, but I am convinced that all those players that have joined the ranks of the American PGA will come back to Europe and compete.
euronews: What do you think of the controversy surrounding the banning of anchor putting?
Olazabal: I think there are certain things you keep the same.
The sport of golf has its characteristics.
When golf was introduced at the beginning the only part of the body allowed to touch the club was your two hands.
For many years there has been a certain amount of tolerance.
But I now see harm in returning to the traditional values of the sport.
I see no logical reason for a teenager, 13, 14 or 15-years-old to start using a belly putter for example.
euronews: Who is the best golfer of all time?
Olazabal: Well I think you have to take into account different eras.
I believe that the era of Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus was a great one, Tom Watson is also a contender there.
While in the modern era Tiger Woods is by far the number one and that remains the same today.
Times are different, the courses are different , the materials are different and it would be unfair to choose a particular player.
euronews: Jack Nicklaus has won the most major titles but do you think Tiger Woods can do better?
Olazabal: When people said that Tiger would never be the same (after his fall from grace) I’ve always stayed true to what my gut tells me.
When I’ve played with him, he’s physically in great shape like an athlete, but his greatest strength is in his head, his mind.
And that has not changed.
And that’s why I’ve always said that Tiger will win more “ majors ” .
I do not know if he will get the four or five he needs to beat Nicklaus but I am convinced that it will be very close.
euronews: How long do you think we will have to wait to see another Spanish golfing great?
Olazabal: It’s not easy.
It is true that we have experienced very good years, golden years … I think Sergio García has enough potential and enough features to become a great player and I am convinced that sooner or later it will happen.
He still has many years ahead of him and he’s our best asset.
euronews: When the results aren’t going your way and you start struggling to retain your Tour card will you think about giving it all up?
Olazabal: Like everything in life things begin and end.
And in that sense I am aware that I am closer to the end (of my career) than the beginning.
But I’ve been through some hard times in life and that has helped me be strong too.
It has helped me put things into perspective and all I can do right now is to work hard to stay on the circuit.
That’s my goal now.
euronews: What will happen for you after golf, will you become a TV commentator, a pundit, will you design golf courses?
Olazabal: There are many things you can do.
Obviously the design of golf courses attracts me, but there are other things.
There are young kids who want to start playing this sport.
I have experience and knowledge that could help them.
You never know.
Create a school maybe … there are so many possibilities, not only becoming a commentator.
I think that you can do many things .
</text>
<text>
Spanish director Pedro Almódovar has made more than 19 films but says he still feels the same excitement about every project he undertakes and the same initial nerves.
He says that with his latest film he wanted to take a trip back in time to his youth.
María Piñeiro, euronews: “ Pedro Almodóvar, throughout your career you’ve won some of the biggest prizes in cinema, you’re the best known Spanish director internationally, you have an honorary degree from Harvard and all your film premiers are big events.
For many people you are a cult director.
How do you feel about that label? ~~~ At ease?
A bit embarrassed?
”
Pedro Almodóvar, film director: “ Every time you get an award or a prize, it’s a huge joy.
It’s someone saying they love you and for that you have to thank them.
But when it’s all over, life goes on as normal.
So I’m very grateful and I think I’ve been very lucky.
I never dreamed of winning so many awards.
But if the truth be told, when you start a new film, or confront the process of getting old, prizes don’t mean a thing.
You always have to take on new challenges and that’s the most exciting thing.
I’m just as excited as I was when I started directing making films and I also get the same nerves because you never know how a film will turn out or how the filming will go.
”
euronews: “ You have been an actor, and today you are a director, a screenwriter and a producer.
So you control all aspects of the films you make.
So are you surprised by the controversy they trigger or is that something you expect?
”
Pedro Almodóvar: “ I don’t exactly provoke controversy deliberately but I know that this is an expression of the freedom enjoyed by people who see my films.
I don’t know in advance what the controversy will be but since it’s been happening since my very first film, I’m kind of used to it now and it doesn’t surprise me any more.
But it’s not really the reaction I’m hoping for.
Given the choice, I’d prefer some sort of complicity with the audience.
The only thing I ask from people who don’t like my work or who have something to say against it is that they at least give me some sort of explanation because what I don’t like is when this type of criticism turns into a straightforward attack.
But I am aware of what sort of cinema I make and I can’t pretend that everyone loves my films in the same way.
People are all different and react in different ways.
”
euronews: “ You have said that you are more at ease with female characters, that through the role of the mother you could tackle all film genres… ”
Pedro Almodóvar: “ Yes, I think I said something like that.
”
euronews: “ Why do you have this special affinity with women?
How do you manage to get into their world so easily?
”
Pedro Almodóvar: “ There’s no need to go to university or study something special to understand a woman.
You just need eyes, ears and a little curiosity.
But I think this affinity with the female world is because I was brought up by women.
Of course, my mother had no money, it was just after the war.
Children followed their mothers everywhere and when we weren’t with them we were with female neighbours.
That’s why my earliest childhood memories are of being surrounded by women and I clearly remember listening to them talking, because for me, life was listening to their stories; and they were all genres: melodrama, horror, comedy, musicals … because all those things were going on all around us, right in front of a child of four years old who was just sitting there.
I didn’t know that one day I would become a film director but I was already taking mental notes on everything that was going on around me.
”
Pedro Almodóvar: “ It’s true.
I think that being a man it’s harder to laugh or joke about my own circumstances than about women’s lives because with them I have a bit more distance.
And anyway men are more of a dramatic, boring subject.
Women have a much more spontaneous side and that’s great for comedy if you’ll excuse me saying so!
”
euronews: “ In recent years, we’ve seen more drama than comedy in your films.
But that all changed with your last film ‘I’m So Excited’ which was an 80s style comedy in the same spirit as your first films.
Was that a way of paying homage to that era?
Why were you so nostalgic?
”
Pedro Almodóvar: “ I’m not really a nostalgic person but I think my memories of the 80s are accurate, true and objective, and that it was an era marked by an explosion of freedom, not only in cinema, but also in life, in the street, in nightlife, in daily life.
You can’t compare that era with the current situation in Spain.
The 80s were also years when I was training, that was when I made my first film ‘Pepi, Luci, Bom’ and that was the first decade of Spanish democracy; it was a decade of absolute celebration, it was very exciting and it was a decade during which I made more comedies than in any other decade of my 30 years in cinema.
So my last film was in some way a homage to those key years for our society, because I think we’ve lost a lot of things we had back then and we need to get them back.
And I think that without a doubt, that last film was a return to my youth, just for the duration of a film, because I’m afraid a real return would be much more difficult.
”
euronews: “ Your project about the victims of the Spanish dictatorship seems stuck in limbo … ”
Pedro Almodóvar: “ I’d like to make a film about the victims of Spain’s dictatorship and I do have a script but it’s not finished because often scripts stay on my desk for ages before being finished.
After my next film, which won’t be this project, I might pick it up again.
But as a citizen it’s a subject which interests me a lot and that’s why I’d like to introduce it into one of my films but to date I have not found the right way to do it.
This subject is very important for people in Spain.
You know how the transition from Franco’s Spain to democracy was made, there was an amnesty law, etc.
But the Franco era crimes need reparation.
It’s not just a matter of settling things, it’s simply about the fact that the grandson or the great grandson, because I don’t suppose the sons are still alive, it’s about giving these people a place to where they can honour their parents. ~~~ It’s a purely humane question.
And I think that as long as that’s not done, the post war period, is in some way still not finished.
”
euronews: “ What do you hope for in the future of cinema?
”
Pedro Almodóvar: “ For the future of cinema above all, I hope to see lots of people in the audience and in the coming years I hope that their curiosity about different types of cinema will increase, in all languages, sub-titled or dubbed, in all situations and all countries.
”
</text>
<text>
Amid war and economic collapse Ukraine’s economy minister has a portfolio not many politicians would envy.
Lithuanian Aivaras Abromavicius was appointed to bring international expertise to the government.
Implementing reforms required by an IMF bailout is among his toughest challenges.
He spoke to Euronews’ Ukraine bureau chief, Sergio Cantone
SC:.What kind of reforms are you ready to implement ?
AA: The main reforms are about deregulation, making a level playing field for all businesses in the country, improving the investment climate so that we will start getting foreign direct investments.
The second is the state-owned enterprises’ reform.
We have 1,900 state-owned enterprises, many of which are run as private entities for the benefit of private individuals and not for the state.
We have a comprehensive plan how to change that, how to change CEOs in a transparent way, how to make those companies accountable.
SC: One of the worst problems of the country, when it comes to reform it, is the blocking of public administration.
All those people who were related to the past regime are blocking any kind of reform or transparency.
What are you going to do?
There is a big problem with pay.
With the current exchange rates salaries are below 200 US dollars a month, and this obviously creates room for corruption.
When salaries are too low, you know, all the money that is circulating around is quite large and therefore we also want to pass administrative reform so that we will be able to cut down considerably on staff numbers and yet increase salaries for the rest.
In my ministry we plan to cut 50% of staff this year and obviously we will be looking for ways to increase salaries for those that remain, so that over time we move to the level where people get decent salaries and they can provide, you know, for their families.
SC What are you going to do in order to get rid of this system of power, both economic and political, which is represented by the oligarchy, something that is common to many post-soviet countries?
AA: We no longer have serious oligarchs left in the country, because with this economic decline and currency depreciation oligarchs now only run small and medium sizes enterprises and so on…
*SC:*Yes, but most of their money is abroad and it is already in dollars…
AA: Yes, but with the declining economy many companies have obviously very large debt obligations and the equity is close to zero, so the influence of oligarchs is not limitless as it was in the past.
We have got rid of middlemen in the gas trading business, right now we buy much more gas from Europe than from Russia, we have absolutely no middlemen there, it is done in a transparent way; there is no more RosUkrenergo, no more Fyrtash in this trade and obviously this is one of the good steps for society and businesses in this country.
We no longer tolerate corruption in the gas trading business.
SC Could you remind us who Fyrtash is?
AA: I guess he is a notorious gas trader who was purchasing gas from Gazprom and selling it to Ukraine, and Ukraine is notorious for two sets of prices at least for gas, where the population gets it at a very low price, completely subsidized, and industry gets it at a market price, which creates massive room for corruption and obviously one of the key reforms is the energy sector reform, the unbundling of NaftoGaz, splitting it into at least three companies and inviting possibly foreign investments into the country.
Obviously we will have to raise gas tariffs in the country which are very low.
SC: Why does it take that long to privatize the infrastructures of gas transport that are strategically very important to this country, to Russia as well as to the EU?
AA: I guess selling any asset to Russia is out of question at the moment, because we know the relationship between our country and Russia at the moment, society will not tolerate that and obviously government is not planning to do anything like that.
When it comes to privatizing gas assets we understand that during a war asset prices will not be high enough to get substantial revenues into the budget.
So we want to clean up state-owned enterprises, bring order to all of them, change the process, the way state-owned enterprises are privatized and when the right time comes, when market conditions improve, we will try to sell the companies to strategic investors.
SC: Minister, is it true that, according to the reforms demanded by international organizations the price of gas should be raised a lot, by 300%?
AA: Well, a gas tariff hike is going to be substantial that’s for sure.
The final price will be set by the national agency for electricity and gas prices.
The government position here is that the rich should not benefit from low prices, which is the current state of affairs.
The position of the government is that we will raise gas tariffs as much as possible closer to the market levels and we will compensate the poor with subsidies.
So the poor will have to do very little: income declaration and application for the subsidies, that’s all they will have to do and they will get a full compensation of the gas tariffs increase
SC: Could you tell us what, in your view, is ‘the poor’ and what is the threshold to define ‘the poor’?
AA: Yes.
With the current economic decline of course the number of poor people in this country will increase and the number of those who will get subsidies will increase tremendously.
So it will be quite a serious challenge for the ministry of social affairs to administer that, but we are ready for that and they will have more people and they will get more additional software and hardware to administer that and everyone who qualifies for the subsidies will get the subsidies.
</text>
<text>
NATO’s secretary general says chemical attacks in Syria “ can’t go unanswered ” – but distanced the alliance from getting involved.
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, in an interview with euronews, added he was “ gravely concerned ” about Syria and convinced Bashar al-Assad’s regime were behind the Damascus atrocity.
But Rasmussen said he did not foresee a role for NATO.
Andreï Beketov, euronews:
“ Secretary General, you kindly agreed to talk to Euronews at the moment when the world is deciding what to do about the chemical attack near Damascus.
” ~~~ Anders Fogh Rasmussen, NATO secretary general: ~~~ “ First of all let me stress that I don’t foresee any further role for NATO.
NATO already plays its part as a forum for consultations among allies and we have deployed Patriot missiles to ensure effective defence and protection of the Turkish population and the Turkish territory.
“ I don’t foresee a further role.
But having said that we are gravely concerned about the situation in Syria and it’s my firm belief that the chemical attacks in Syria can’t go unanswered.
It is necessary that the international community sends a firm message to dictators all over the world that you can’t use chemical weapons without any reaction.
Beketov, euronews:
“ By doing what? ~~~ How to send this signal?
” ~~~ Rasmussen:
“ Well, that’s for individual nations to figure out. ~~~ As you know there are considerations right now.
But I think it’s of utmost importance that the international community sends a very clear message.
It is a responsibility for the international community to uphold and enforce the international ban against the use of chemical weapons.
Beketov, euronews: ~~~ “ How convinced are you that the Syrian government committed this atrocity?
Rasmussen: ~~~ “ I am convinced that the Syrian government is responsible.
Variety of sources point to the Syrian regime as responsible.
And I don’t believe that the Syrian opposition has the capacity to conduct such an attack of that scale and scope.
It’s irrational to think that the opposition would attack their own people in the areas they already control, with chemical weapons.
There is no doubt to my mind that the Syrian regime is responsible.
Beketov, euronews: ~~~ “ Why do you take the alleged chemical attack much more seriously than the killing of civilians by bullets? ~~~ ”
Rasmussen: ~~~ “ Of course the killings that we have seeing in the Syrian conflict are outrageous.
Maybe more than 100 thousand people were killed.
It’s horrendous.
But obviously the use of chemical weapons is something very special.
Chemical weapons can be use in a limited way.
But chemical weapons can be easily turned into a weapon of mass destruction.
And that’s why you have very very strong restrictions in the international conventions.
Actually they ban the use of chemical weapons.
And that’s why international community has a particular responsibility when it comes to enforcing those international conventions.
Beketov, euronews:
“ You know that Russia supports the Syrian government, it supplies it with weapons, Russia has naval base in Syria.
Whoever takes any action against Syria – aren’t they confronting or in danger of confronting Russia? ~~~ Are you concerned about that?
” ~~~ Rasmussen: ~~~ “ I strongly regret the division within the international community.
And I think that divided international community holds a lot of responsibility when it comes to the conflict in Syria.
But I think by the end of the day the Russians will realise that much is at stake and they wouldn’t engage in a conflict.
I do believe that it is a responsibility for the whole of the international community to safeguard the international conventions against the use of chemical weapons.
Beketov, euronews: ~~~ “ The situation with Russia is a bit tense at the moment.
We are talking with Vilnius.
Soon, in the autumn, Lithuania will take part in a NATO exercise to simulate the invasion by a foreign power, as I understand.
Russia and Belarus will conduct manoeuvres in the same region.
Moscow is already saying it’s reminiscent of the Cold war period.
Do you agree? ~~~ ”
Rasmussen:
“ No. ~~~ Now, I think everybody should calm down.
It’s a quite natural thing that militaries do exercises.
I mean it’s necessary. ~~~ We do it, Russians do it.
I don’t think the problem are exercises as such.
The problem is if there is no transparency.
And that’s why we have provided full transparency.
We have invited the Russians to learn more about our exercise.
We have nothing to hide.
And we encourage Russia to brief us on their exercise as well.
Actually we have already had excellent discussions within the NATO-Russia council.
We appreciated that. ~~~ So I think when it comes to military exercises most important thing is to have a full transparency so that there will be no misperceptions and no misunderstandings.
” ~~~ Beketov, euronews:
“ The United Stated have offered what they consider as concession to Russians in term of the missile shield in Europe and disarmament.
What’s your reaction to their reaction, to Russia’s reaction to these offers?
Rasmussen: ~~~ “ First of all let me stress that we decided to build a NATO missile defence because we want effective protection of our population against missile attacks.
And we know that more then 30 countries in the world have or acquiring missile technologies.
Some of them do have a range sufficient to hit targets in Europe.
And we want to protect our population.
That’s why we will build this NATO system.
We have invited Russia to cooperate.
So far they have not responded positively.
Recently the Americans slightly changed their missile defence approach but it won’t change the fact that by 2018 there will be full coverage of the NATO missile defence system.
” ~~~ Beketov, euronews: ~~~ “ That’s all we have time for.
</text>
<text>
She has been the leader of the anti-immigration, anti-EU Front Nationale in France since 2011 and has just been unanimously re-elected by her party at its annual conference.
It won most French seats in the 2014 European elections and is poised to mount a serious challenge for the presidency in 2017.
Marine Le Pen spoke to Euronews’ Sophie Desjardin.
SD ~~~ Marine Le Pen, the opinion polls continually have your party first among the opposition.
What do you think when you look at yourself in the mirror in the morning?
MLP:
I’m preparing the great democratic upset that’s going to happen in the next presidential election for sure.
It’s the aim of each one of us in the Front Nationale to do our utmost to win power so we can pursue our policies, not just to have power for itself, but to change the situation in our country.
SD
When you started your career as a lawyer, you sometimes defended foreigners who had no residency status.
It seems you fought for their right to stay in France.
What became of that Marine Le Pen?
MLP
She’s still here!
What you have to understand is that we can reasonably consider that a process is devastating for a country – which is the case for immigration – without wanting to make those who weren’t responsible for the situation pay for the political choices of our leaders.
We have always said we’ve nothing against immigrants, but rather those who made them come here.
SD
You talk about ending massive immigration, but, realistically, what are you going to do with those undocumented people already here and those who feel they have to come to Europe to save their lives?
MLP
But they can go home.
I’m here to save the skin of the French people.
I do understand suffering, but I think first we have to tackle the causes.
I would take the same approach as the Pope, that is, lay the situation at the door of the warmongers.
SD
But if tomorrow you’re elected, you’ve told us you would stop all that.
You went to Lampedusa, you saw the distress of these people.
It’s one thing to say ‘stop the boats and send them home’, but would you drive the boat?
MLP
Have you been to Lampedusa?
SD
Yes.
MLP
You will have seen young people who come to work in Europe because they have been led to believe that there was work in Europe.
Because we led them to believe that it was Eldorado.
So, in a way, they are also victims of lies as much as the French people who suffer the consequences of this immigration, to whom we say ‘could you make room because there are people coming’.
Well, no, we can’t make room.
We can’t, because there’s no more room.
 ~~~ SD
Turning to Europe, and to put it simply, you want France out of the eurozone and the EU.
But if France alone were to leave the euro it would be hugely complicated.
MLP
Listen, I wouldn’t be so sure about that because the countries that are outside the European Union are doing very well.
SD
But they were never in in the first place, that’s the difference.
MLP
So the moment you join you’re condemned to stay?
SD
No, but it’s more difficult to get out.
We don’t know because there’s no precedent.
MLP
But that’s because we’re kind of guinea pigs in this experiment.
They’re trying to impose a kind of Europe on us which is not at all the one we were sold … and then afterwards they say ‘Oops!
we never thought about how you could get out.’ There’s a kind of amateurism in not having foreseen a process where one of the populations of the European Union people would want to leave this European Union.
SD
What do you think of someone who criticises their company?
MLP
Well, that depends on the circumstances but if was done publicly, that wouldn’t be very loyal.Why?
SD
Well, what are you doing at the European Parliament, which contributes so much to your income?
MLP:
You’re very kind, madam, but I am not an employee. ~~~ OK?
I am not an employee of the European Union.
I am an elected representative of the people.
Excuse me!
Excuse me!
I’m elected by my voters who strongly feel that the Front Nationale must have a maximum of representatives to protect them from the European Union.
SD
Are you ideologically close to Vladimir Putin?
MLP
I share at least a part of Vladimir Putin’s economic vision.
That’s for sure, but it didn’t start yesterday.
The Front Nationale has never changed its position on this subject.
We welcomed the arrival of a government that did not serve the ‘apparatchiks’ ; and which developed a patriotic economy.
SD
You’ve said you have a certain admiration for him as a person.
MLP ~~~ Yes.
I admire his cool head. ~~~ Because there is a cold war being waged against him by the EU at the behest of United States, which is defending its own interests.
I admire that he has managed to restore pride and contentment to a great nation that had been humiliated and persecuted for 70 years. ~~~ Simple as that.
I think that there are things you have to look on with a positive eye, or at least with an impartial eye .
SD
Well, just on the reasons behind those tensions, a small number of countries have recognised the political situation in Crimea in relation to Russia.
What about you. ~~~ do you approve of the annexation?
MLP
At the time that that referendum was organised there was no legitimate power in Ukraine.
It was an illegitimate power, a putsch.
SD
It was Viktor Yanukovich himself who left.
No one forced him to go.
MLP:
Yes, with a knife at his throat.
I think if he had stayed he would have been eliminated.
So, I think the referendum was organised in conditions that were not so contestable and that the will of Crimea to be part of Russia is not so contestable.
The annexation to Ukraine was against the will of Crimea.
SD
But Ukraine didn’t steal Crimea.
It was Khrushchev who gave Crimea to Ukraine.
MLP:
Yes, it was a gift. ~~~ It was a gift, a gift.
But I think Crimea would never have returned to Russia if the EU had not moved to recognise a government in Ukraine that was not, at the time, totally legitimate.
The EU committed a serious error.
In as much as there are highly dubious elements in this government, particularly a certain number of notorious Nazis.
SD
They say that about your entourage also!
 ~~~ MLP:
You’re joking, I hope!
When I talk about Nazis in Ukraine, I’m talking about Nazis, Nazis, meaning Nazis with Nazi flags.
But once again history will prove us right!
But it’s alright, (sarcastically).
I see, (you think), that there are nice Nazis.
When they’re Ukrainian they’re ‘nice’ Nazis, not ‘nasty’ Nazis!
 ~~~ I’ve seen in the past governments condemned for brutalising their people, for firing on them.
But that one in Kyiv is bombarding its own people, and no one is taking it to task.
SD
Are you for or against a coalition against the Islamic State?
MLP:
Well, I’d first like to know if it would be effective.
I’d like to know who would be in this coalition.
To be in a coalition with Qatar and Saudi Arabia, that would make me fall out of my chair.
Because they are the countries who are financing Islamic fundamentalism.
So to join a coalition with those countries would be just crazy.
SD
So we should just leave it alone, the Islamic State?
MLP: ~~~ No.
I didn’t say that. ~~~ But first, do we have to stop ourselves from going into Syria to fight them?
We tell ourselves ‘we can’t do that because that would help Bashar al Assad.’
SD
Even into Syria?
MLP:
Of course, in Syria! ~~~ But obviously with the agreement of the Syrian government.
SD
So you defend national sovereignty in Syria but not in Ukraine?
MLP:
But, Madam, in Ukraine no one has come in to force … once again …
SD (interrupts)
In the same manner that some say they know Qatar aids and militarily finances the Islamic State, we know who helps the Ukrainian rebels.
 ~~~ MLP:
When it’s the Americans telling me that, please allow me to have my doubts.
Besides, I doubt everything the Americans say.
Is that clear?
Whatever the Americans say say is questionable.
 ~~~ SD
Just to finish, give us a word, adjective to describe these four personalities: François Hollande
MLP:
Not so soft as he appears!
SD
Angela Merkel
MLP:
An Iron Lady
SD
Jean Claude Juncker
MLP:
A sanctified hypocrite
SD
Barack Obama
MLP:
A disappointment
</text>
<text>
Following the discovery of the Higgs boson, this year’s Nobel prize for physics – as expected – went to the two men who first came up with the theory half a century ago: François Englert of Belgium and Britain’s Peter Higgs. ~~~ 
Euronews met Englert to ask him about this long-awaited recognition, the future of physics, and God.
Lise Pedersen, euronews: “ Professor, what does it feel like to see your name come up next to those of Albert Einstein and Pierre and Marie Curie?
François Englert: “ Modest, first of all, because I’m nowhere near Einstein’s intelligence and understanding.
He is one of the two or three people who have changed the world’s comprehension in a way which no one, in my opinion, has equalled, and certainly not me.
That said, evidently it is rather nice to receive this recognition.
”
euronews: “ You’ve received numerous prizes, the biggest being the Nobel.
Shouldn’t the Large Hadron Collider have been the third laureate?
” ~~~ Englert: “ I’m not part of the prize committee, so it’s not for me to discuss the underpinning of what the Nobel Prize decision-makers do.
Clearly, the committee chose to reward the discovery of the theory; right or wrong is not up to me to say.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Would you say that thanks to the particle accelerator tool Europe has the means to be a world leader in scientific research, ahead of the United States?
Englert: “ It’s obvious, at least in experimental research development for particle physics.
I wouldn’t go so far as to say it’s true generally, but here, it’s clear that CERN today is unsurpassed anywhere in the world, it’s truly the nec plus ultra now, in experimental research into elementary particles. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ The Higgs boson has been described as the most important scientific discovery in the last 50 years.
Now that the missing piece of the Standard Model puzzle has been found, what are the major challenges facing scientific researchers in the coming years?
” ~~~ Englert: “ There might be an even bigger problem, because it calls into question fundamental developments that physics has to achieve if it wants to deepen knowledge further as regards to looking into the scientific intelligibility of the universe – what we call dark energy.
That’s not the same thing as dark matter.
It’s a field that envelops the whole universe and which stretches out with it.
This thing, of course, has phenomenological explanations that Einstein already found, but deeper comprehension probably calls for knowing the effects of quantum mechanics, or, more precisely, the relationship between quantum mechanics and the theory of relativity, which is the theory of the gravitation of bodies.
All things together, it’s not very important to what surrounds us; the quantum effects of gravitation are negligible, but they play a fundamental role in the emergence of the universe from I don’t know what – and that’s what we have to find.
euronews: “ Without quantum physics there wouldn’t be any science fiction, there wouldn’t be Star Trek.
If you hadn’t been daring enough to publish this article 50 years ago, there might not have been a theory to prove.
How much imagination and creativity is there in what you do?
Englert: “ I think there really is creativity, and I’d say, basically, that what you need is new ideas, and that if we want to come up with ideas it requires what we call in a rather banal way ‘intuition’.
But intuition is about things that come from experiments that have been put into the world of the unconscious or the subconscious, and in which things are done more freely than in the world that is governed by daily necessities.
And it’s this analysis – keeping this up to date – that plays a very important role in what we commonly call intuition, but which actually is a creative phenomenon.
That I believe is essential.
I think that it’s not essentially very different from artistic creation.
In a way aesthetics plays a fundamental role.
euronews: “ When your article was published 50 years ago, it didn’t arouse much interest.
What message do you have for young researchers?
” ~~~ Englert: “ A message … I don’t think there really is a message to give.
I can only recount my experience.
Things in that time led us to make this theoretical discovery – Robert Brout and me.
It was basically because we had worked in another area.
We had always tried to revive the humanist ideal, somewhat.
But that’s harder in a world where there is so much knowledge that we get the impression we can’t know everything, but we can still have ideas, especially if we do it intelligently.
It’s clear also that when starting out in a domain in which you have little experience – which not only carries disadvantages but some advantages – don’t make the same mistakes as others. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ The Higgs boson has been nicknamed ‘the God particle’ by the media.
What does God have to do in all of this?
Englert: “ Nothing, nothing!
It’s simple: I don’t think God has anything to do with it.
What’s more, I don’t very well see what God has to do with anything, but that’s a separate question. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Former Italian Prime Minister and President of the Foundation for European Progressive Studies, Massimo D’Alema is considered a prominent, Italian leftist.
He spoke to euronews about life after Berlusconi and the eurozone’s troubles. 
  ~~~ euronews: “ Italy had a shake up towards the end of 2011.
Since then, it has slowly recovered but at great cost.
The austerity plan has meant higher taxes, pension reform and now labour reform – with incentives for hiring and measures for layoffs.
You’re a leftist but what are the right answers?
”
   ~~~ Massimo D’Alema: “ Well I have to say that Italy has taken a very important step forward since the replacement of the Berlusconi government.
This, for Italy and for the eurozone, was very good news, because Italy was not responsible for the crisis, the government was. ~~~ ”
 
euronews: “ But with how it is today, including the employment reforms, by introducing more flexibility without necessarily strengthening the safety net in a country where there is no minimum wage, where unemployment benefits are very limited and where the social protection is dysfunctional, are there still risks? ~~~ ”
 
Massimo D’Alema: “ The problem was the huge division of the labour market between workers and between the young people who have security and the ones who are in a more precarious situation – with no rights and no protection.
So, the reform has two sides, one means there’s more flexible work for protected workers but on the other side, there’s now more protection for young people who had nothing.
I don’t think the problem of the division of the labour market has been resolved but the reform has allowed it to take a step forward. ~~~ “  
 
euronews: “ Italian markets have generally taken less of a battering of late but recently, borrowing rates have started to rebound and Italy is overloaded with debt, 120 percent of its GDP is debt and it is in recession.
Do you still think Italy is out of the woods? ~~~ ”
 
Massimo D’Alema: “ No, I think we should realise that we have a Europe-wide problem, it is not just Italy.
This is what has been happening recently throughout the European markets. ~~~ ”
 
euronews: “ But Italy is part of the weak … ” ~~~  
Massimo D’Alema: “ Yes of course, of course, Italy is part of the problem but two things must be emphasised, first, Italy is a rich country, and the wealth of Italians is much higher than the debt.
A lot higher than the debt.
This means that we have resources inside the country.
Secondly, it was shown in the past with the centre-left Prodi and Ciampi governments that it is possible to reduce public spending.
We have reduced public spending five points lower than the right-wing government, without touching basic social rights. ~~~ “   ~~~  
euronews: “ There will be elections, in your country next year, just as in Germany.
There will also be elections in France.
Do you believe there should be a change in these three countries? ~~~ ”
 
Massimo D’Alema: “ Yes of course.
I know that markets do not like elections, because sometimes it seems that democracy is an unbearable weight for the financial markets.
But I think it’s not the markets which decide people’s destinies.
Yes, I think we need change and I think we can change because the three major European countries, France, Italy, and Germany, together represent 200 million EU citizens.
That’s out of the 330 million in the eurozone.
So these are really important countries. ~~~ ”
 
euronews: “ Would it be enough to offset a Europe that would still be dominated by the right? ~~~ ”
 
Massimo D’Alema: “ This is not true, it is not true because I think things are changing.
In Slovakia, a small country, the left won.
In Slovenia the left won but yes, Europe has been dominated by the right.
We can see the results … We need a European strategy for growth, and that means European investment, Eurobonds … ”
 
euronews: “ That’s to say? ~~~ ”
 
Massimo D’Alema: “ We need a European guarantee on the debt.
It does not mean that each country must pay this debt but the strength of Europe can mean lower interest rates, freeing up resources for growth without spending too much money on financial speculation. ~~~ 
 
euronews: “ So this is something that can not be done as long as Angela Merkel is around … ” ~~~  
Massimo D’Alema: “ Yes.
I think she has been very negative for Europe. Merkel represents a very selfish Europe.
 
euronews: “ So, a question on another subject.
A year ago, 63 people fleeing Lybia died of hunger and thirst in a boat adrift because nobody came to their rescue.
The Italians knew and did nothing.
There has been a report by the Council of Europe, which also calls NATO into question.
How did we come to let people die at sea by failing to let them onto Italy’s soil? ~~~ “
 
Massimo D’Alema: “ I think, and I said it even then, that the immigration policy conducted by the Berlusconi government was really a black time in our history.
As was the agreement between Italy and the Gadaffi government to return the illegal migrants.
It is possible to return illegal immigrants but the problem is that before returning them, you should check if they are refugees who have the right to stay. ~~~ “
 
euronews: “ More generally, is there more of an obvious shift in the discourse of Europe? ~~~ The values it ​​proclaims and how it treats migrants and asylum seekers?
Italy is a particularly bad offender, do you see this contradiction? ~~~ ”
 
Massimo D’Alema: “ Yes.
I agree with you and in addition I think we need immigrants.
If we want to keep a balance between the youth and our ageing population, we will need immigrants in the coming years.
The European Commission itself said that we need roughly 30 million immigrants over the next 15 years.
So I think we should have a European policy of immigration and right now we do not have that but if we’re talking about Italy, look at Malta?
They have never had one.
When there is a boat, the only thing they do is to point the way to Italy.
“  
</text>
<text>
Anna Miranda, euronews: War, armed conflict, torture, catastrophe … how to alleviate human suffering?
Is humanitarian diplomacy gaining in efficiency or losing?
Jakob Kellenberger, thanks for being with us.
You’ve been at the head of the International Committee of the Red Cross for twelve years, a role for you which is coming to an end a few weeks from now.
As someone who knows the situation in Syria better than anyone, at this stage of conflict, what concerns you the most?
Jakob Kellenberger: I was the only head of a humanitarian organisation who had been to Damascus three times in nine months, so I am personally deeply involved.
The Red Cross being the only international player on the ground, and having increased the area of its operations and staff, means its needs have also increased, again, and I am afraid this will continue – that we don’t, by any means, see the violence ending.
euronews: However things do develop, the Syrian conflict has exposed the complexity of the relations between countries in the United Nations Security Council.
Do you think the UN needs extensive reform to make it easier to act?
Kellenberger: No, I don’t have …
euronews: On the Syrian question, specifically.
Kellenberger: No, but …
euronews: Are we facing a major diplomatic failure? ~~~ 
Kellenberger: Well, it should be said that what we call the Annan Plan, which laid out a cease-fire followed by a political dialogue between the parties concerned, was basically, I find, a good plan.
Now, you are right – when we see the cease-fire violations and never really know who is responsible, I would say that the most probable alternatives are that we try a sincere political dialogue, although I’m afraid that this will show that what we are really seeing is a civil war.
euronews: But are we seeing a paralysis of the institutions?
Kellenberger: Yes, but not for the first time.
You know very well that it’s not only in the case of Syria that the veto has been used.
It has been used quite a few times.
euronews: How have you managed to be recognised as an independent and neutral party by all the parties engaged in an armed conflict?
Kellenberger: They see that we don’t take sides.
By that I mean that we work exclusively based on humanitarian needs, for people needing protection and assistance.
I’d say it’s several things: not being opportunistic, really identifiable by our principles and capacity to act.
euronews: The International Red Cross has scaled back its programme in Pakistan over fear of serial abductions.
Here, like in Iraq, Afghanistan or Columbia, abduction has become a means of waging war.
Are we seeing terror succeed, in consequence paralysing humanitarian activity?
Kellenberger: What happened in Pakistan is really very serious in two ways.
One is the loss of someone you work with who is highly committed and very courageous – the loss of someone working to help.
And the other aspect is that, naturally, you have to react after what has happened, based on what you know.
This may mean that you have to withdraw from a region.
If this sort of thing becomes systematic – you are correct – it would be extremely serious.
These are failures, failures of humanity, because it is very bad for everyone, and it’s also a failure in terms of access.
euronews: It is indisputable that, following the attacks of September 11, 2001, the fight against terrorism impacted against human rights.
You yourself have experienced tensions with the United States because of Guantanamo.
Are you in favour of reinforcing the legal protection of the victims of armed conflicts?
Kellenberger: There were very difficult periods and enormous differences, notably after a key decision by the US Supreme Court in 2006, in which the applicability of parts of the Geneva Convention was recognised.
It truly opened up a major question of legal process.
It’s true that, after September 11, I believe that certain circles really did have trouble finding a balance between military necessity, if you want to put it that way, and humanity.
That was really a mess, on the one hand on a values scale and also, one could think, at one point, that security as one of those values started to dominate all the others, including liberty.
euronews: Mr Kellenberger, are the rules of war today adapted to modern conflict?
Kellenberger: It is true that the lawcode enshrined in treaty is highly developed for the sort of conflict that today is no longer the main sort of conflict there is, which is to say conflicts between states, while it is thin on non-international armed conflicts.
There is, certainly, a need to develop laws applied to wars which are not international conflicts.
euronews: Thousands of Palestinian families living in the West Bank have loved ones in Israeli prisons.
Are there sometimes political obstacles that prevent you from carrying out your missions either in Gaza or in the West Bank?
Kellenberger: At the judicial level, the level of applicable law, there are clearly different views between Israel and the Red Cross.
To take a very simple case, we consider that the fourth Geneva Convention is applicable, while Israel considers that humanitarian law is not applicable.
There are thousands of Palestinian detainees whom we visit in prisons under Israeli authority, but we also visit detainees in those under Ramallah’s authority, and under Gaza’s authority.
euronews: You must know that Palestinian prisoners are threatening to hold a new hunger strike.
Two people are in danger of dying.
How can administrative detention imposed by Israel on Palestinians be ended?
Kellenberger: We are truly at the heart of a very big problem posed in Israel, but also which came up after September 11: the internment, for security reasons, of people not accused of a crime.
Well, there, madam, I must tell you: it would be a major step in the right direction if we applied international humanitarian law, because it asks that we apply, in those cases, that we have an independent authority that oversees, that checks regularly whether a person is truly a continued risk to security, and if that person is not, then he must be set free.
</text>
<text>
Vincenzo Nibali established himself as one of the best stage race riders at the weekend when he won the 101st edition of the Tour de France.
In doing so he became only the sixth man in the history of the sport to complete a career slam of the three grand Tours – France, Italy and Spain.
Fresh from his latest Grand Tour victory euronews caught up with the champion in Paris.
Juan-Antonio Aldeondo, euronews: ‘‘With Italy being such a traditional cycling powerhouse, why did we have to wait 16 years to see another Italian wearing the yellow jersey in Paris?’‘
Vincenzo Nibali: “ The Tour is a really important race, there’s a large international participation and it’s really hard to win it.
Before Marco Pantani’s victory, which was 16 years ago, the previous one was 33 years before that, Felice Gimondi’s victory.
It took many years for an Italian to win the Tour de France.
It’s a high-level competition, very important and that’s why it’s so difficult to conquer.’‘
euronews: ‘‘Winning the Tour has always been on your mind.
On more than one occasion you have said that one day you’d win it.
Did it become an obsession?’‘
Nibali: “ No no, on the contrary, I tried not to place too much importance on it.
I tried to ride with serenity, in a very relaxed way.
Last year I participated in the Vuelta as well, and I lost it in the last week, finishing second.
But, in the end, you have to accept the defeat, as well as accepting you can finish second or third.
This is cycling.’‘
euronews: ‘‘What does it mean for you to be only one of six cyclists in the sport’s history to have won all the three Grand Tours?’‘
Nibali: “ That’s something special and particular, because there are only a handful of people who have achieved this feat.
The Vuelta was my first win and gave me a real boost [in 2010].
Then, I started working a lot on the Giro d’Italia, because for an Italian it’s a very important race.
I finished on the podium and came very close to success (in 2011), I loved it.
Then, last year, in 2013, I won it and for me it was a huge feeling.
‘‘The Giro is a race that I had always dreamt about and I used to watch it avidly on tv.
I saw the great champions, such as Indurain and Pantani, they were always there, competing at the Giro.
The Tour is always a spectacular race and when I was there, on the lowest step of the podium [in 2012], I said to myself ‘who knows if one day I could win it.
I knew it was not easy at all, but I worked really hard to achieve this success.
It wasn’t easy, but now I can say I did it!
euronews: ‘‘What would you like to say to those who think you won the Tour because Chris Froome and Alberto Contador retired after crashing?’‘
Nibali: “ Unfortunately, this is cycling.
It’s made up of falls, good and bad things.
This is part of the game.
I can say, though, that I was strong, from the beginning to the end.
I won in England, the York-Sheffield stage. ~~~ Then I won on the Planche-des-Belles-Filles, in the Alps and the Pyrenees.
So, I was always in a good position and in good shape.
For sure I produced a high-level performance at the Tour. ~~~ ”
euronews: ‘‘Looking at the overall standings, there’s a massive margin between you and the rest of the peloton.’‘
Nibali: “ I think that the main factor for this was that in my head the main objective was to fight with Alberto Contador and Chris Froome, with whom I had competed against in the Critérium du Dauphiné.
I knew that I had to continue working to reach a high level and I arrived here, at the Tour, well prepared.
Maybe, with Froome and Contador still in the competition, the gap would have been a little tighter.
But, also last year, at the Giro d’Italia, the lead was big. ~~~ ”
euronews: ‘‘The expectations were high.
Astana placed a lot of faith in you and the results weren’t there during the season.
The team started to lose patience, but you looked like you were very relaxed in the middle of the peloton.
Were you confident about your preparation?’‘
Nibali: “ This is normal.
Last year I produced a stunning season, from beginning to the end.
I finished very well in two big stage races and this is not easy.
I almost won two Grand Tour in the same year [he won the Giro and he finished second in the Vuelta].
Then, I participated in the World Championship and it’s normal that, during the winter, I let myself go.
Then, in February, my daughter was born, so I devoted myself to the family as well, I gained some weight, but I arrived in July with the right kind of energy.
It simply took me more time to be ready.’‘
euronews: ‘‘Now, you are the most ‘sought-after’ cyclist in the peloton and you will not be short of offers.
Will you be staying with Astana until your contract runs out in 2016?’‘
Nibali: “ I still have two years left on my contract and I’m still here.
Astana built a team just for me, so yes I’m going to stay here until 2016.
euronews: ‘‘Next year, you will be targeting the Tour again.
Do you want to prove that you can beat Froome and Contador, Quintana and all the others?’‘
Nibali: “ My ambition is to try to beat them, always.
For sure, we need to prepare the races well.
I mean, the big stage races, which for me are the most important.
We need to be in the best condition.
Also last year, I raced several times against Contador and Froome and I managed to beat them.
Then, of course, there are some years when you win, and others when you lose.
But this is normal, because this is sport.
” ~~~ A proud general manager
Euronews also caught up with team’s General Manager and former pro-Tour rider Alexander Vinokourov, who was understandably full of praise for his winning charge Nibali, as well as the rest of his Astana team.
euronews: ‘‘After Froome and Contador withdrew, the pressure was on.
Astana didn’t relax and when the team had to take some risks, it did, without being afraid of the possibility of crashing out.’‘
Vinokourov: “ This is part of the race.
We stayed concentrated all the time, always leading the way.
Everybody can have an accident.
Well, of course, I feel sorry for Froome and Contador, but this is part of the game.
I don’t think, though, that this can take away from Nibali’s victory.
I think that even with Froome and Contador in the race, he could have beaten them.
Vincenzo was there, in the mountain stages.
He won 4 stages, he had a good performance and for our country, this was a great image.
The team was always there, in front of the group, ready to defend the jersey.
euronews: ‘‘Would your tactics have changed had Froome and Contador remained in the race?’‘
Vinokourov: “ We always try to be competitive, try to increase the gap with the others cyclists.
And if we had the possibility of winning a stage, we really went for it.
In particular, we wanted to win the last Pyrenees stage to show how Vincenzo was the ‘master’ of the Tour and to leave our mark.
Everybody was already tired, but they tried to give their best anyway.
” ~~~ euronews: ‘‘Sometimes it looked like Nibali was riding similar to you during your career.
How much is your influence on the team?’‘
Vinokourov: “ Well, for sure, they feel it, but Nibali, as a champion, has a mentality easy to manage.
The team’s strategy is motivation.
We can say that Nibali rides a little bit like me.
But he’s Nibali.
I’ve never won the Tour, never lived this experience.
And the fact that he did it with our team, well, this is the most beautiful thing that could have happened. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Finland’s Olli Rehn is a three-time EU Commissioner, currently in charge of Economic and Financial Affairs; a pretty thankless watch considering the constant turmoil since he took office.
As the EU and eurozone enter uncharted territory with the Greek political crisis, a potential change of direction from France, and deepening cracks in Spain’s economy a perfect storm appears to be on the horizon.
In an interview with euronews he plots a course for recovery. ~~~ 
Paul Hackett, euronews.
‘‘Commissioner Rehn, thanks for being with us. ~~~ The economic road map proposed by you here in Brussels, proposed by Berlin, seems this month to have been rejected by French and Greek voters.
Don’t you think it’s time to change the approach?’‘
‘‘I think it’s important that we in Europe now combine fiscal consolidation and sustainable growth.’‘
euronews:
‘‘What do you actually mean by growth?
Growth is like world peace, everybody wants it: but what exactly do you mean by growth?’‘ ~~~ Olli Rehn:
‘‘That’s precisely the problem in the current debate and therefore we have to substantiate and we have to tell the people how growth will come about.
Our view is that we have to stay the course on fiscal consolidation because we can not grow by piling new debt on existing debt … ”
euronews: ‘‘So its more of the same austerity, isn’t it?
”
Olli Rehn:
‘’ … Can you, if you listen to me, I’ll tell you.
So, first, we have to stay the course on fiscal consolidation and in parallel we have to reinforce the actions in the field of investment both concerning how to boost public and stimulate private investment.’‘
euronews: How do you do that?
Olli Rehn: ~~~ ‘‘Well, you do it first of all by creating confidence in the economy, which means you have to resolve the sovereign debt crisis and mitigate banking sector fragilities in order to have credit flowing in the economy, and in parallel you can use public banks and public investment such as the European Investment Bank.
We need to stimulate private investment with that, because there is plenty of private money in Europe at the moment, but it is not going into investments.’‘
euronews: ‘‘But a lot of commentators are saying this is only going to tweak the current recipe.’‘
Olli Rehn: ~~~ ‘‘I don’t see how you can say that’s a small tweak.
If you put 10 billion euros in the European Investment Bank you get 60 billion euros of lending by the EIB which can altogether imply, with leverage, around 180 billion euros of investment in infrastructure and innovation in energy and green growth in Europe.
I don’t think that is insignificant.
On the contrary.’‘
euronews: “ What does Greece need to do to stay in the euro?
“
Olli Rehn: ~~~ ‘‘We talk about Greece.
For Greece it is important that the country will be able to, and the political leaders in the country, will be able to form a coalition government … ”
euronews: ‘‘It doesn’t look like it’s going to … … ’‘
Olli Rehn: ~~~ “ … ..and it’s able to bring the country out of its current difficult situation.
euronews: ‘‘What if it can’t form a coalition government, what then?’‘
Olli Rehn: ~~~ ‘‘Let’s not speculate on scenarios which are not yet happening.
I trust that Greek political leaders will realise the seriousness of the situation and try to form a coalition government soon.’‘
euronews: ‘‘Would it be a disaster now if Greece did leave the euro?’‘
Olli Rehn: ~~~ ‘‘I do not want to speculate on the question of possible exit of Greece from the euro.
I do not want to imagine the worst if it is not necessary.
It’s more important now to be determined, especially in Greece, in order to form a coalition government and in a convincing manner tackle the economic challenges of the country.’‘
euronews: ‘‘The Commission President, Jose Manuel Barroso, has spoken about the fiscal compact being intelligent, being adaptable: does that mean less pain for Spain?’‘
Olli Rehn:
‘‘Spain has formidable economic challenges, largely because of the accumulated external imbalances, because of the credit boom in the past decade, and the property bubble which has burst.
And inevitably it will still take some time before this readjustment has been concluded.’‘
euronews: ‘‘Will it get the year that it needs to bring down deficits?’‘ ~~~ Olli Rehn:
‘‘I think that’s, with due respect, that is a too simplistic way of putting the challenges of Spain.
Spain has major challenges in two fields, especially … well, three.
The first one is, of course, the high level of unemployment, especially youth unemployment.
The country is now tackling that with very substantial labour market reform, which is long overdue.
 ~~~ The second, the country, and the government as we speak is in fact meeting to decide on a very comprehensive root and branch reform of the savings bank sector, which is essential to restore confidence in the banking system of Spain, and make credit flow again. ~~~ 
And third, the excesses of regional governments needs to be controlled and curbed.
So, Spain has to focus on these three things in order to restore confidence and improve the credibility of its economic and fiscal policy, which is essential for it to grow again.’‘
euronews: “ My final point: will Greece be in the euro next year?
”
Olli Rehn:
‘‘Greece will be in the euro next year.
Of course, it is essential that Greece will have to be able to take the necessary decisions to meet the conditions of the second programme of economic reform and fiscal adjustment, and that requires better political stability and a functional coalition government that enjoys the support of the majority in the Greek parliament.’‘
</text>
<text>
Euronews reporter Wolfgang Spindler spoke to the exiled Iranian filmmaker of Kurdish ethnicity Bahman Ghobadi.
The director speaks about making movies in Iran, his latest offering “ Rhino Season ” and his hopes for the future of his country.
Wolfgang Spindler, euronews.
“ Your last movie is the first you have made since leaving Iran.
What was it like working outside your homeland? ~~~ ”
Bahman Ghobadi:
“ Firstly, I didn’t leave Iran they forced me out of my country.
It is very difficult to make a film in a country without knowing the language or culture.
So this film reflects my feeling since I left Iran, in other words it is a very personal piece of art.
” ~~~ euronews:
During the Cannes Film Festival I interviewed your colleague Asghar Farhadi, he said there is a problem of censorship, not censorship from the authorities, but a self censorship, within the film community.
Bahman Ghobadi:
“ What I always say about censorship is that we have become worse than the state, it is automatic, yet we don’t want censorship, but the constant pressure on us by the regime forces you into it.
One becomes like a convict on death row.
They treat you so badly that you decide to kill yourself.
Iran is like a condemned man who has been shot but the bullet missed the heart, Iran is seriously injured, we must help this country rise again.
” ~~~ euronews:
“ Did you leave Iran with a heavy heart? ~~~ ”
Bahman Ghobadi:
“ It has been that way for three or four years I feel their is a hand smothering me, trying to strangle me.
The film has helped me get over it.
Now I breath a little better.
euronews:
“ You once said you hated cinema, then you became a filmmaker. ~~~ What does it mean to you to be a director?
What is your mission?
What keeps you going? ~~~ ”
Bahman Ghobadi:
“ I am not sure exactly, but there is an energy that comes from my childhood, more specifically childhood memories.
This blows me away and helps me make films.
This energy comes from my country, my culture, the people and the Kurdish misfortune throughout the ages and the insecurity which weighs heavy in that part of the world.
All this led me to make movies.
It is true I have never really loved film or theatre, because the situation is difficult, conditions are not ideal for a filmmaker I could never film in peace in Iran, I have never just sat in a chair and said, “ camera, action.
” I have never had such a chair.
euronews:
Yes, but cinema is important, it is story telling, it presents a picture of your country, it offers the world a window on Iran and raises Iranian issues.
It is important to produce, make and see Iranian films. ~~~ ”
Bahman Ghobadi:
“ I know and this is why I continue on my way, film and cameras are effective weapons, most of the time I don’t carry firearms, but now I am armed and use this to defend my homeland.
I also try to reflect my country’s history and its people to the wider world.
I live in a country where you need permission to even think the authorities want to know what you are thinking and what are your plans for the future as a filmmaker.
They even want to know what subject you are writing about.
Once the script is ready the government makes you wait for months, years for permission to film and then they finally allow you to film.
Then you have to put up with state security agents while you are filming your sequences.
Then when you have made the film you need a permit to distribute it, to put it on screen.
Then you need permission to send the film to festivals there is a lot of fear and panic you feel strangled.
All this is great fun for a filmmaker.
euronews:
“ We have seen the Arab Spring turn some states upside down.
So far there has been no Persian spring.
Is there any hope for change in Iran? ~~~ ”
Bahman Ghobadi:
“ Not a Persian spring, an Iranian spring because Iran is not Persian.
Persians are a small part, Iran means the Kurds the Baluchis, Arabs, Azeris.
When the different ethnic groups rise, the Iranian spring will be stronger than in 2009, but I have the impression that there was a resolve to suppress this popular movement both domestically and in the wider world.
I believe in the Iranian spring and the Kurds, Azeris, Baluchis will rise soon.
I hope that the regime itself decides to concede and hand back human rights to all our citizens and all ethnic groups in my country.
</text>
<text>
Denmark took over the rotating presidency of the European Union at the beginning of January, and its Social-Democrat prime minister stands out in a Europe dominated by the right.
Helle Thorning-Schmidt recently presented her country’s programme for the next six months to the European Parliament.
euronews caught up with her there and began with the new budgetary compact.
Audrey Tilve, euronews:
“ Prime Minister, first of all thank you for being with us on euronews.
This fiscal pact, shaped by 26 member states is supposed to be the solution for the crisis.
But it is already wildly seen as insufficient.
”
Helle Thorning-Schmidt, Danish Prime Minister:
“ I think the fiscal act (sic) is seen as not happening fast enough and that’s why we are working very hard – everyone is working very hard – for the fiscal compact to be adopted as soon as possible, so there’s a firm ground under our debt crisis and also reminding us that each member state has to keep track of their economy, have to have the necessary responsibility in terms of their economy.
That is one of the reasons why Denmark, which is not a eurozone country, is planning to join (in) as much as possible the new discipline of the new fiscal compact.
”
euronews: ~~~ “ But we already know that is has been watered down a lot, that there will be exemptions to the fiscal discipline, that the Commission won’t play a big part, that the European Court won’t play a big part either.
Isn’t this a bit disappointing?
”
Helle Thorning-Schmidt:
“ This is being negotiated, this is a work in progress and I think it’s to early to judge whether it’s an improvement or not.
I’m convinced that more discipline, more focus on each member state, keeping their economy in order is a good thing for Europe because it’s a good thing for the euro.
euronews: ~~~ “ There’s nothing really new about this pact.
The commission says that 95 percent of what is in the pact did not require a new treaty.
So why such a risky move?
Because some countries – including Denmark – might have to hold a referendum.
” ~~~ Helle Thorning-Schmidt:
“ We don’t have that debate at this stage, because it is obvious that we want to see the result first.
I don’t envisage a referendum at all, but we need to see the result and it is the resolve of the Danish government that we want to join (in) as much as possible.
”
euronews: ~~~ “ During the last summit there were leaks about the way President Sarkozy snubbed you as a newcomer and your country as a non euro-member.
Is Denmark, is the Danish EU-presidency bound to be overshadowed by France and Germany when it comes to dealing with the crisis?
”
Helle Thorning-Schmidt:
“ First of all I think it’s important not to believe everything you read in the press – that’s always good advice.
But also, we should appreciate that the euro-member states have taken a huge responsibility.
People always say, ‘Oh, Merkel, she’s deciding to much, she’s taking too much on herself.’ I appreciate that the biggest member state of all of us is actually taking a big responsibility and I think we should not look down on that and scorn that.
We should appreciate it.
”
euronews:
“ You are one of the very few left-wing leaders in Europe at the moment and you do stress the importance of reviving growth in this times of austerity.
What exactly and concretely are you trying to achieve in less than six months?
”
Helle Thorning-Schmidt:
“ We need to focus on how to get new jobs, new growth in Europe.
One of the ways of doing that is to revive the single market.
The internal market has been one of the biggest successes of our union and it is my position that if we revive that, renew our internal market, for example by adopting the roaming directive, the energy efficiency directive, other concrete directives, than we have a chance of creating a new foundation of new growth and new jobs in Europe.
”
euronews: ~~~ “ So this is about legislation but … concrete incentives in less than six months?
”
Helle Thorning-Schmidt:
“ Well directives and dossiers on the table – that IS concrete and tangible.
They can make a difference for the European citizens.
The Danish presidency is about getting results for Europe, so we can see there is a path out of the crisis, a path were we again have growth, prosperity and jobs in Europe, and to do that we need to revive the internal market.
”
euronews: ~~~ “ Denmark has four opt-outs on European policy: monetary union: defence, home and justice and EU-citizenship.
Do you plan to give up any of this, and if so, when?
”
Helle Thorning-Schmidt: ~~~ “ We are actually, we are planning to renew the discussion on home and justice affairs and also the defence policies.
I have been of the view for many years, actually since ’92, that it would be better for Denmark and for Danes to be part of these two areas as well as the euro.
We will debate that with the Danes and it is our plan to put that to a referendum.
”
euronews:
“ (You) talked about the euro too – because Denmark is quite dependent on the rest of Europe and actually the Danish crown is pegged to the euro.
Isn’t it is a little bit of an illusion for Danes to think that they are maybe safe or more autonomous without the single currency?
”
Helle Thorning-Schmidt:
“ I’m in favour of the euro and have been for many years.
I think it would be good for the Danish economy to be part of the euro.
But I also say that the time is not for that debate right now.
The Danish crown is pegged to the euro, we will continue to be so and that is good for the Danish economy at this stage.
”
euronews:
“ One question about Hungary: the Commission has launched the procedure against the government for the damage being done to the state of law.
Should Europe isolate Hungary?
The European Parliament is ambiguous and most states are quite silent on this issue.
”
Helle Thorning-Schmidt:
“ I think it would be a huge mistake to isolate a member state, where you want to say something to that member state.
What is happening right now is the correct way of approaching a country that you think is not in line with our treaties.
we have the commission whose job it is – whose ‘raison d‘être’ it is – to make sure that the treaties are being kept and now they have decided to start an infringement procedure against Hungary.
That’s the correct way of doing it and the Danish presidency have backed that way of doing it all through this discussion we had for the last weeks.
”
euronews: ~~~ “ Do you hope that the government will come in line with what the Commission is asking for?
”
Helle Thorning-Schmidt: ~~~ “ Yes, that goes without saying that all member states of our union they have to comply with the rules that they have signed up to.
That goes for all our rules but particularly the core of our rules which is about democracy, pluralism and all these things that are so important and such important values for our union.
”
</text>
<text>
Iran has continued to make headlines in recent weeks partly because of yet another round of futile international negotiations over its nuclear programme, and partly because of a new report by the United Nations on the human rights situation in Iran. ~~~ 
Euronews spoke to Mohammad Javad Larijani, Secretary General of Human Rights Council in Iran, and top advisor to the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Khamenei.
euronews: “ The report by the UN is filled with cases of abuse of human rights, unjustified imprisonment, torture and of executions including of minors.
What is your response to the report? ~~~ ”
Larijani: “ In the name of God.
We are not claiming to be perfect, but we think that our record on human rights definitely is not worse than the other countries who are really putting the blame on us, such as a good number of EU members.
euronews: “ But this report is based on 169 interviews and investigations into various instances of abuses of human rights in Iran.
It is also based on, apart from the UN, three of the most respectable and respected human rights organisations in the world: Amnesty International, Reporters Without Frontiers and Human Rights Watch.
You can’t say that all are biased.
There must be an element ,or many elements, of truth in it. ~~~ ”
Larijani: “ The issue of credibility in this report is very serious.
We agree that some of our laws need modification but others we definitely support even against western criticism.
We think the number of executions in Iran is too high.
We should change the law.
There are a number of crimes connected to drug trafficking, about 74 percent of executions in Iran, I believe.
There is no need to consider them as “serious crime”, so this needs changes in the law, and a lot of people in the parliament don’t agree with me. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ One of the ‘sins’ in the Islamic Republic is ‘propaganda against the regime’.
Meaning that if I express an opinion, if I am a blogger, that is ‘propaganda against the regime’.
It is expressing an opinion for which so many young people are in prison and allegedly have been tortured. ~~~ ”
Larijani: “ Let me elaborate on that, because this is not the real case.
Iran is actually ahead of all countries in the Middle East to the extent that the internet is used. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ But the use of the internet is limited because you filter it. ~~~ ”
Larijani: “ Well, this is an issue globally.
There are issues that are considered damaging to the national interests of the people, to the life of the people: abuse of children, under-age sex, things like that need to be followed up or filtered. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ How about criticising the ruling elite?
Larijani: “ Oh no, it should not be filtered. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ What about torture in prisons?
” ~~~ Larijani: “ Well, torture in prison is a disease, a crime, but compare us with the United States.
euronews: “ Yes, but you cannot justify wrong-doing in Iran by comparing it with wrong-doing elsewhere, like the US.
Larijani: “ You know, there is no absolute good.
According to the law, torture is a major crime.
According to Islam and Sharia (Islamic law), anyone who carries out torture may receive death penalty. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ What about the practice? ~~~ ”
Larijani: “ Well, yes.
When it comes to practice, I agree with you.
Recently, we totally changed the legal supervision of the police temporary detention centre.
We are not defending wrong-doing. ~~~ We are defending that we want to be better.
When it comes to the prison administration, well, it is a problem of efficiency, competence.
The prison administration is not a simple issue.
We are ready to discuss all of these shortcomings, but not with fingers pointing at us.
The west, and specially the US, and the Europeans are approaching Iran in the wrong way.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Let me move on to the forthcoming elections.
In other democracies it is usually the political parties or organisations that vet their candidates.
In Iran, it is the Guardian Council consisting of 12 men.
Six appointed by the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, and six by the judiciary.
Where does that leave the people of Iran?
Larijani: “ The job of the Guardian Council is not to vet a candidate.
They look at the candidacy, and whether they are eligible to be candidates or not.
A person who has been involved in a coup d’etat cannot be a candidate, a person who has no adherence to Islam cannot be a candidate.
It is like a person who says I want to be the President of France, but I have no reliance on laïcité [liacism]. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Let me move to Iran’s nuclear programme.
Now Iran is under military threat from the international community, inflation is exploding and sanctions are hurting.
All this for a meagre 20 percent enriched uranium for a half-baked programme?
Larijani: “ The situation is not as bad as you said because the country is moving and surviving.
The issue of nuclear technology is not an issue of having only some kilos of 20 percent enriched, we are in the international community like any other person.
Every right that an American has, we Iranians have.
The Israelis are very afraid of Iran.
This is their problem.
They are paranoid.
” ~~~ euronews: “ I don’t want to judge the argument of either side.
To me it is ‘realpolitik’, that is Iran is facing two options under the circumstances and the sanctions: either ‘hunger’ like North Korea where people eat grass, or a military attack.
Which one do you choose? ~~~ ”
Larijani: “ We are much better and affluent than a good number of countries in southern Europe.
A military attack against Iran is also not feasible.
It may be easy to attack one place or another in Iran, but Iran is the one which will finish that war.
The third option is sitting down and let us accept and acknowledge the right of Iran as a member of the international community within NPT (Non Proliferation Treaty).
We don’t want more than that.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Let’s move further with foreign policy and move to Syria.
Why do you support Bashar Assad?
Larijani: “ Support for Bashar Assad is part of our regional policy: confronting the hegemony of Israel in the area.
The US and Europeans want to enforce a change in Syria because they want to put a dictator over there in the name of democracy, which is the stooge of Israel.
The better way is to stop arming terrorists to go there, and let the opposition sit down and have an election.
Everybody should participate in the election and Bashar Assad agreed to that.
Then Iran would support the decision of the people of Syria. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim of euronews talked to Mark Regev, spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews: “ Is Israel planning to attack Iran soon?
”
Mark Regev: “ So far, despite diplomatic pressure, despite economic sanctions, despite other efforts by the international community, the Iranian regime continues to march forward, to race towards a nuclear weapon – a weapon that will be aimed at my country and so it is very important that we keep all options on the table.
“ So far, on Israel’s side, we have not taken a decision yet.
But we know that if there is a decision to use military force, there are costs involved.
I can only say the following: that the costs involved in not acting, the costs involved in seeing Iran proliferate and achieve a nuclear weapon, are obviously much greater and much more formidable.
”
euronews: “ Does Israel have the military might to end Iran’s nuclear ambitions?
”
Mark Regev: “ I never go into operational questions, I apologise.
”
euronews: “ Are you concerned that the Lebanese group Hezbollah could intervene?
What do you make of Hassan Nasrallah’s latest speech in which he said the lives of thousands of Israelis will become a hell if Israel attacks Lebanon?
”
Mark Regev: “ We see him as a threat and we are ready to meet that threat and I would not suggest to anyone, especially not Hezbollah … it is easy to say words but I think he will be more cautious because it is not in his interest to start a round of fighting with Israel.
He should not test us.
”
euronews: “ What is your position on the bloody events in Syria?
”
Mark Regev: “ We have expressed our outrage, our concern, our concern for the people of Syria who are suffering under this brutal regime.
Everyday we see the reports of more and more killings of innocent people in Syria and it has to stop.
Of course, in addition to those concerns, we have special concerns related to the large chemical weapons stockpile in Syria.
We don’t want to see those chemical weapons reach the hands of extremists either from Hezbollah or from al Qaeda or from other extremist organisations. ~~~ 
“ We want to see a Syria that, hopefully, will be more stable and a Syria that will live in peace with Israel.
That is our hope but obviously we are not interfering, other than to say that we support the rights of the people of Syria to have a better government.
”
euronews: “ Do you feel Israel’s security is threatened by Hamas’s relationship with Egypt’s new ruling party?
”
Mark Regev: “ I can only say that we have a problem with Hamas.
I mean Hamas took over the Gaza Strip and instead of investing in the future of the people of Gaza, instead of trying to build a better life for the people of Gaza, Hamas is stuck in a very extremist mode where they are investing in future conflict with Israel.
”
euronews: “ One last question … How do you respond to accusations that Israel killed Yasser Arafat?
”
Mark Regev: “ It is simply not true and I don’t think that anyone is taking these accusations seriously and I would remind the Palestinian side that all the documents concerning Mr Arafat’s health, concerning his medical treatment, all these documents are with them – either with the family or with the PA government.
And so I say to them, instead of cultivating conspiracy theories, why don’t you just make everything public?
That surely would clear up the matter.
”
Full interview with Mark Regev
</text>
<text>
Ali Larayedh, the head of the Tunisian government, was in Brussels on June 25, to see the European Commission and Council presidents, as well as the president of the European Parliament, and also with our Brussels correspondent Charles Salamé.
Charles Salamé, euronews: “ Prime Minister, following your invitation to Brussels by the European Union, after your various meetings here, can you bring us up to date on the latest developments?
”
Ali Larayedh, Prime Minister of Tunisia: “ I came to Brussels to talk with European officials, and to inform them, at their request, about Tunisia’s accomplishments in building a democratic state of prosperity and constitutionality, of orderly security in the wake of the Tunisian revolution, which was the first in the Arab World and which so far has been the most successful.
European officials wanted to know the dates for the next elections, and we’ve told them that our government would like the elections to be at least partially organised before the end of this year, and followed up in January 2014.
That is the basis on which we are working, and we’ve been moving steadily in that direction at a good pace till now.
“ We have committed to reforms for which the results may be expected to become apparent within two to three years, possibly even sooner.
These purposeful reforms have been in the areas of investment, public-private partnership, the revision of how the state is involved and the collection of taxes.
We have found that the economy is improving, since in 2012 we registered 3.6 percent growth, and we hope to attain four percent for 2013, even though we acknowledge that the state of the world’s economy generally is not helpful in realising high rates of growth.
”
euronews: “ Looking at the state of the Arab World, Tunisia used to be the seat of the Arab League; given what has been happening, notably in Syria, what is Tunisia’s official position towards the events in Syria, especially since jihadist fighters are known to have gone from Tunisia to fight in Syria?
”
Larayedh: “ Tunisia and the Tunisians approve of, support and strongly encourage any effort towards a political solution in Syria which could speed the end of the violence there – the loss of lives, avoiding more losses and destruction.
As concerns the few Tunisians seeking adventure by going to Syria without knowing what is waiting for them there, an ignorance which is to the benefit of those against whom they fight, we have found that this phenomenon – which is not limited to Tunisia – and the government has taken steps to ban young Tunisians from travelling to Syria, so that they do not get sucked into a commitment there, and we are preparing for the consequences of those who are already there and who leave Syria … for this we are working with the parties concerned so as to manage the interests of Tunisian adventurers in Syria; we are taking the necessary measures, which will be applied after their return.
”
euronews: “ Prime Minister, governments don’t customarily get mixed up in the work of judges, but in your capacity as head of the government of Tunisia, what can you tell us about the investigation into the assassination of the lawyer who was leader of the Popular Front, Chokri Belaid?
”
Larayedh: “ The case of the assassination of the late lawyer Chokri Belaid – well, immediately following the regrettable murder, a great many security schemes were put in place, because this assassination was simultaneously an attack against the family of Chokri Belaid, against the Tunisian people and Tunisia itself, as well as against the Tunisian political process.
However, until now, certain people are being sought, who could furnish us with specifics about this crime, and they are still at large.
They could answer certain questions as to who was behind this crime.
“ That’s the first thing.
Apart from that, the case of Belaid’s assassination has been exploited intensely not to get at the truth but for political ends, and to attack parties or individuals.
Several things were brought about which turned out to be proven in error, and afterwards no one made any apology.
We heard a lot of things, several analyses. ~~~ And then when people discovered things that were inexact, no one said sorry.
“ Because of this, I am really concerned that this case has been used to stir up affairs in general, or to influence public opinion, or to affect negatively this person or that person, or has been used for political ends.
At a government level, we are working seriously, and we are doing everything we can to put our expertise to work to find out who attacked Tunisia, its revolution and the democratic transition process.
”
euronews: “ Mr Larayedh, the press in Tunisia currently has freedom of expression, and this freedom is one of the biggest accomplishments of the revolution in Tunisia.
And yet today the European Commission’s President Barroso has asked you to improve this freedom of expression in Tunisia.
There have been requests concerning the judgement of the young activists from the organisation Femen.
”
Larayedh: “ After the revolution, Tunisia’s justice system became independent.
In Europe, when there is a ruling by a justice system, people with political responsibilities refuse comment on the work of the judges.
As far as we are concerned, we are going to follow the same procedure.
”
euronews: “ To conclude, if elections were held in Tunisia today, do you think the Ennahda party would win?
”
Larayedh: “ I think I still know more than anyone in Tunisia about the Ennahda party, which is among the biggest parties that will be running in the next elections; but as for how many votes it will get – it’s too early to say; that’s hard to predict.
”
euronews: “ Won’t the elections be influenced by waves of radical religious extremists and jihadists?
”
Larayedh: “ There are parties and individuals who can create disturbances, as is the case now.
They can distort the process but they can’t stop it.
”
</text>
<text>
Four years of revolution have not left Libya in the state its people were expecting. ~~~ Huge political division and armed conflict are tearing the country apart.
Lives have been lost and Libya’s resources wasted. ~~~ It is a situation that is worrying the international community, particularly Libya’s neighbouring North African countries.
We discussed the situation in Libya with politician, military leader and president of the nationalist Islamist Al-Watan (‘Homeland’) Party, Abdulhakim Belhadj.
Belhadj’s backround lies in Salafi-Jihadism. ~~~ He fought in Afghanistan and was later imprisoned in the US and Libya for establishing the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group.
Belhadj also participated in the downfall of the capital Tripoli during the 2011 uprising.
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews: “ First of all, what is the current situation in Libya?
”
Abdulhakim Belhadj: “ The problem right now in Libya is totally political.
This issue has resulted in Libya being divided into two parliaments: the ‘Libyan Parliament’ and the ‘National Congress’.
This means there are two legislative bodies, two governments and even two armies.
“ But, the reality we are witnessing on the ground plays the main role in what is happening in Libya these days.
”
euronews: “ So, you’re saying this conflict began as a political struggle, but turned into an armed conflict?
Who started the battle?
And how did it begin?
”
Abdulhakim Belhadj: “ It started when the retired General Khalifa Haftar came back onto the scene.
He took part in a military coup on the ruling General National Congress (GNC), before forming the current parliament in Tobruk.
 ~~~ “ So, General Haftar is the person who sparked this war.
He contended that he was against terrorist organisations and groups working outside the boundaries of the law.
But I would describe this general as an outlaw, because he began this war and failed to find a solution to the Libyan crisis.
”
euronews: “ Some reports say forces loyal to you started a war in the streets after you extended your control over Tripoli airport.
They suggest you are the cause of this internal fighting.
So, are you part of this armed conflict?
”
Abdulhakim Belhadj “ No, of course this is not true.
And people observing the situation in Libya know who Abdulhakim Belhadj is.
I resigned the presidency of the Tripoli Military Council, which comprised more than 23,000 fighters and my goal is not to cling on to this scene or position.
Neither did I order any fighter to do so.
“ I now lead a political party – the Al-Watan Party – and our main loyalty lies with the nation.
We want to address the Libya question and put the interests of the country and its citizens first.
This affiliation is now leading us to gather for discussion with all the Libyan factions.
”
euronews: “ Are you accusing certain countries of being behind General Khalifa Haftar?
”
Abdelhakim Belhadj: “ Yes, certainly. ~~~ And they don’t deny that.
The United Arab Emirates, for example. ~~~ We hoped they would offer support for the stability of Libya, that they would help to restore security and establish Libyan institutions.
But we notice now that the UAE sends aircraft, weapons, ammunition and armour to those who are killing the Libyan people.
”
euronews: “ If these countries are, as you say, supporting General Khalifa Haftar, which nations are supporting you?
”
Abdulhakim Belhadj: “ I want to reiterate that I am not one of those people who is armed, who is walking around with weapons.
But, I can say that those who are leading the scene now and are carrying out the orders of the GNC are those who have had legitimacy from the beginning.
 ~~~ “ For example, the military forces operating under the name of Fajr Libya – or Libyan Dawn – are valid.
It has been in operation since the era of former Defence Minister Abdullah al-Thani, who gave the group authority.
It took orders from Chief of Staff Abdul Salam Jadallah.
”
euronews: “ What is preventing you from meeting your opponents to negotiate an end to the crisis?
”
Abdelhakim Belhadj: “ We support this and we are calling for talks.
We have sat down several times with international organisations, such as the United Nations, and we have introduced many initiatives to try to reach a solution.
But, we don’t think that what the UN did recently at the conference in Geneva was effective.
“ With due respect to all the international organisations supporting a resolution to this conflict, I would like to say: some of those who are invited to conferences such as the one in Geneva are far removed from what is influencing politics in Libya, especially the current ground operations.
”
euronews: “ As we understand, you are saying that you are just a political man, but what we do know is that you are in fact now ruling the city of Tripoli.
”
Abdulhakim Belhadj: “ That’s not completely true.
Our only comment on the confusing scene in Libya is as follows: due to a series of weak governments in our country following the uprising of February 17, 2011, plans to develop security and military institutions have not been carried out.
So, Libya is awash with militia groups and armed entities, which do not have the official support needed to legitimise them.
“ So, the scene remains as it is now.
Divisions and conflicts have occurred because some political groups have allowed armed entities to increase their control on state institutions in Tripoli.
”
euronews: “ Are you now a fighter under the guise of a politician?
”
Abdulhakim Belhadj: “ I stand with my brothers, who are seeking to find a solution to the Libyan crisis regardless of their political affiliation.
Because, democracy means accepting the principle that people have different points of view.
We have taken this on board. ~~~ 
“ But, what I would like to confirm here is this: today we are working to find a solution to end this crisis – a crisis we do not want to continue or to be repeated.
”
euronews: “ Your background lies in salafi-jihadism.
You fought in Afghanistan and were imprisoned in the US, then in Libyan jails because you established the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group. ~~~ You also participated in the downfall of Tripoli during the 2011 uprising.
But now you introduce yourself as a politician and a moderate Islamist, calling for discussion and rejecting terrorism.
What is the secret behind this drastic change?
”
Abdulhakim Belhadj: “ You are going back to our roots and the war we fought against the Muammar Gaddafi dictatorship.
That battle was linked to the spatial and temporal conditions at the time. ~~~ 
“ Because we were fighting a dictatorial regime in Libya, it was necessary for us to use weapons in order to save the Libyan people from Gaddafi’s rule. ~~~ 
“ This was the role of the Group in the past, but I would like to clearly affirm that the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group has been terminated.
It ceased to exist at the downfall of the Gaddafi regime.
”
euronews: “ You accused the British government of involvement in the torture you were subjected to at the hands of Libyan intelligence officials.
Are you still filing legal action against them?
”
Abdelhakim Belhadj: “ Yes. ~~~ I was tortured in Libyan prisons by Libyan intelligence officials, with the help of British intelligence.
We discovered evidence of this after entering the security headquarters in Tripoli during the revolution.
We found documents proving that the British Intelligence Agency MI-6 were involved, as well as some other people who handed me over to the Gaddafi regime.
 ~~~ “ They put me at the mercy of a regime that does not respect human rights, and I would ask the British government to acknowledge this.
It is proved by letters, which are signed by British agents.
I ask them simply for an apology, then I will drop the matter.
”
</text>
<text>
Pope Benedict XVI is retiring from the leadership of the Catholic Church.
Long ago popes took refuge in the Castel Sant’Angelo when they were under threat from enemy armies.
Benedict will leave his position without having to do that, but neither will he disappear all together.
Euronews went to the Vatican to get a better understanding of the Catholic Church’s position and future after this historic event.
The time between the announcement of the pope’s abdication and the moment he steps down on February 28, see the Vatican in a situation which is without precedent in recent history.
There is a power vacuum even though the pope is still alive.
Euronews discussed this with the editor-in-chief of L’Osservatore Romano, the Vatican newspaper.
euronews: “ The most influential Italian newspaper – Corriere della Sera – ran this headline on February 12: “ The failed attempt to change the Roman Curia ” .
(The Curia is the administrative apparatus of the Holy See and the central governing body of the Catholic Church) So why did it fail?
Was it because of the pope or the Roman Curia?
Giovanni Maria Vian, Editor-in-chief l’Osservatore Romano: “ This is the Corriere della Sera’s opinion, and I don’t share it, not at all.
The pope, who believes very much in changing attitudes, rather than structural changes, he’s very much changed the curia over eight years.
Do not forget that the papacy will have lasted eight years.
euronews: “ By making his resignation announcement, the pope did not give himself any opportunity to change his mind.
In addition no cardinal asked him to reconsider the decision to leave.
Is all that normal?
Giovanni Maria Vian: “ Canon law states that two conditions must be met in the event of a papal resignation: that choice must have been made freely and there must be a public announcement of this act.
This decision, the pope explained in his text in Latin, is very clear: he realised he no longer had the energy to govern the “ boat ” of St.
Peter and carry out the evangelical mission as he should today.
So, for that, he leaves and passes the baton to his successor.
euronews: “ Do you think this former pope will become “ invisible ” ?
Gian Maria Vian: “ We’re in an unprecedented situation, so it is impossible to make reasonable predictions.
euronews: “ What ‘is it that has hurt the pope the most – divisions in the Vatican, Vatileaks, the scandals of the Vatican Bank, or the paedophile priests?
Giovanni Maria Vian: “ It’s clear that the Pope has had a lot to deal with, he’s faced a number of storms – like all of his predecessors – but it’s clear that that the thing that most affected him was the scandal concerning the abuse of minors committed by members of the church.
For another perspective on this historic moment at the Vatican we spoke with Dino Boffo, the director of Catholic TV station Sat2000.
euronews: “ Mr Boffo, in 2009 you were the victim of a media attack by a Berlusconi family newspaper.
After this you resigned as the director of the Catholic daily newspaper Avvenire.
Do you believe today that resigning was the right choice?
Dino Boffo: “ I would say yes, at least in my case it was a winning solution, I left straight away, at the beginning, in order to find the truth.
In the case of Pope Benedict XVI, it is quite different.
, He resigned for reasons related to his age, he told himself that because he can no longer cope with the challenges that the church and our times impose, he therefore prefers to leave the post so someone younger. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Who’s going to benefit from the resignation of Pope Bénoit XVI?
Dino Boffo: “ On leaving, the pope has said the church and God’s people need new energy.
A younger, stronger pope can clearly give more to the church than an 85-year-old man.
I don’t mean by that that the pope was weak, on the contrary, we could see when he was reading his texts that his powers of thought were even greater.
That said, governing the church is not only related to the quality of your thoughts, but rather an intellectual energy, the ability to react and take decisions quickly.
euronews: “ What do you think of the appointment as President of the IOR, the Vatican Bank, of the German Baron Ernst von Freyberg, who is a member of the Sovereign Military Order of the Knights of Malta and also president of Blohm & Voss Shipyards in Hamburg which builds warships?
Dino Boffo: “ I’m waiting for more details about this appointment because I do not want to say without knowing more.
I admit that this news me surprised me a bit.
I don’t know if he still works there but if that is the case, if he’s still a director at the military shipyards, it is desirable that he immediately step down from that role.
And this choice would not be very appropriate.
”
</text>
<text>
In 1963 Ferruccio Lamborghini founded the famed car company of the same name, in Sant’Agata Bolognese, a village in Northern Italy’s “ motor land ” .
 ~~~ For 50 years the Italian brand has produced unique, fast and desirable motors.
Lamborghini is now a world leader from the first Lambo to the latest Veneno – cars afforded by the few, coveted by the many.
Lamborghini, a global brand that represents Italian excellence, celebrates its 50th anniversary at the Geneva Motor Show where it is showcasing a new speed machine – the Veneno.
Euronews journalist Cinzia Rizzi spoke to Lamborghini President and CEO Stephen Winkelmann and first asked about the features of the fastest and most expensive ever produced by Lamborghini.
Stephen Winkelmann: “ Well there is a reason why we make these kind of cars as a special limited edition.
This allows us more freedom in concept and design and the opportunity to use new materials and technology; they also have a positive effect on our other products.
They inspire dreams, which for some become reality.
The engine is a 750 horsepower V12, with a power to weight ratio of 1.93kg/CV, it goes from nought to 100 km/h in 2.8 seconds with a speed limit of 355 km/h.
”
euronews: “ Only three Venano’s have been produced, so who are you targeting with this vehicle?
Winkelmann: “ We always want to create excellence, something extra, a trend setter.
So, beside our product range like the Aventador and Gallardo, we always have some “ icons, ” which represent our brand and increase the notoriety and image of Lamborghini.
”
euronews: “ Last year, 2012, was a record year for you with 2,083 cars delivered to 45 countries.
Compared to 2011 you increased sales in Europe by 34 percent, by 50 percent in the US and 30 percent globally.
Is Lamborghini immune to the economic crisis?
”
Winkelmann: “ In 2008, 2009 and 2010 we were hurt by the crisis.
Even the luxury car market is hurt by downturn.
For us, at the moment, the market is stable, but it is really difficult to provide accurate forecasts for 2013.
Clearly the most important market for us is the US and let’s hope for a good 2013.
”
euronews: “ Historically Lamborghini is a market leader in the United States, but in terms of growth what about the Asian markets – China especially – what is your strategy to get a foothold in these markets?
”
Winkelmann: “ We care for all our customers all over the world.
If you look back, just a few years, the sports car market in China was non-existent and today it is number two in the world.
That means our style and design are well liked, not only by the Chinese, but by all Asia.
The positive thing is that in that part of the world the average age is lower than in Europe or the US.
”
euronews: “ You set yourself the goal of reducing emissions by 35 percent by 2015.
There has been talk of a SUV Urus model with a hybrid engine.
Are you still working on that?
”
Winkelmann: “ Well we want to stick to our 2015 goal of reducing emissions.
Concerning the Urus, you are right it will be the ideal car, not only the hybrid aspect, but as well for the first time a turbo engine for Lamborghini.
The decision as to whether or not we develop it will be taken by the end of the year.
That is why 2013 is a crucial year, our 50th anniversary year.
”
euronews: “ In recent years Lamborghini has focused on handling and the power weight ratio.
Have your priorities changed?
”
Winkelmann: “ We have honed our priorities, so for the sports car the design is number one and of course performance, but there are other aspects that are becoming more and more important – power to weight ratio.
We are working on reducing weight because we now have new materials, such as carbon and materials that improve stability an handling.
These elements are becoming more important for sports cars now and for the future.
”
euronews: “ What are Lamborghini’s objectives for the future?
” ~~~ Winkelmann: “ The first is a successful anniversary year.
We have plenty of projects going on in Italy and around the world.
We will be making some noise around new products this year.
I am standing in front of the second new product – the Veneno – because we have started the year with the launch of the Aventador Roadster, and you will see more later.
”
euronews: “ Lets talk about racing.
In the early 90s Lamborghini took part in the F1 World Championship as an engine supplier for some teams and with your own Modena team.
Now you are into the mono brand championship, are you thinking about a return to Formula 1?:
Winkelmann: “ Our motorsport strategy is mono brand in Europe, last year we started in Asia and this year, for the first time we will be in the US, plus we want to start as a constructor in the GT3 series because this is our natural environment, as we produce cars for the road, which are similar to race tracks.
We have no intention of returning to F1.
”
euronews: “ Last question, why is Lamborghini a dream and what makes a perfect Lamborghini?
Winkelmann: “ I will start with the second part; a perfect Lamborghini is the next one, the one we will produce in the future.
Why the dream car?
That is easy to answer – for performance, design, and the fact that it’s an icon, which has provided dreams for children who go on to realise their dreams.
”
</text>
<text>
For the last fifteen years he has been helping women from the Democratic Republic of Congo who have been mutilated in the most intimate way.
Doctor Denis Mukwege is a gynaecologist, forced by the state of things to specialise in reconstructive surgery.
The European Parliament has chosen him to be the recipient of this year’s Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought.
Euronews met him on his way through Brussels at the St. ~~~ Pierre hospital, an establishment that supports both his medical mission and ethical position.
Audrey Tilve, euronews:
“ Denis Mukwege, thank you for being with us.
The Sakharov prize is far from being the first you’ve won, many others have preceded it.
What use are all these medals and prizes when you are confronted every day with the worst of what man can do?
”
Denis Mukwege:
“ Well, we need this solidarity expressed by European states to fight this evil that we have seen arrive in the Congo, and now today the violent rape of women in times of conflict is tending to become a generalised thing.
I think it is extremely dangerous to use this as a weapon because it is an arm that destroys all humanity: ”
Audrey Tilve:
“ You have cared for more than 40.000 women and girls at your hospital since you opened it 15 years ago.
What are they victims of?
”
Denis Mukwege:
“ These are women who have been raped, often in public, in front of their husbands, in front of their children, and then after this collective rape are tortured genitally.
Women come to see me because they have serious physical injuries afterwards.
”
Audrey Tilve:
“ These attacks are sometimes surreal in their sadism, with stakes being used, or shards of bottles, gun barrels … Who commits these atrocities, and why?
”
Denis Mukwege:
“ Unfortunately in the Congo in the eastern part there are many armed groups from Burundi, Rwanda, or Uganda and they associate with local armed gangs of youths we call the Mai-Mai.
They get brainwashed to go on the rampage and destroy everything, raze entire communities so the people leave the land, and then the gunmen move in to exploit it.
”
Audrey Tilve:
“ You refer to Kivu, the eastern region where the DRC has suffered from 20 years of violence.
Armed groups fight it out for control of territory, but why?
Because of the natural resources there.
Can you tell us what they are and how they are linked to the plight of Kivu’s women? ~~~ ”
Denis Mukwege:
“ In fact this part of the Congo is extremely mineral-rich.
There’s abundant tantalite and cassiterite, in high demand in the electronics industry.
So when armed groups take over territory they take over the mineral rights, too, which they exploit any way they want.
This way they have of attacking women, destroying them in public, ruining their genitals in show punishments in front of everyone is a way of terrorising the community.
”
Audrey Tilve:
“ Where is the authority of the state in all this?
The army is stationed there, the UN has more than 20,000 men deployed.
Does that mean they are all accomplices?
”
Denis Mukwege:
“ All we can say is that 12 years after the peace deal was signed the government hes yet to exert control over certain territories.
Armed groups kill, rape, and destroy while the army which is supposed to protect them … well, the women and children are still waiting for their help.
The UN? ~~~ I always thought the presence of the UN would help to build peace, but it will be very, very hard to put a UN soldier beside every woman and baby, because I tell you even babies have been victims.
”
Audrey Tilve:
“ Have these criminals been tried? ~~~ Have they been punished? ~~~ Is there any justice in Kivu?
”
Denis Mukwege:
“ Unfortunately I have to say there is total impunity.
”
Audrey Tilve:
“ Some people, mostly women, are calling for an International Criminal Tribunal to be set up for eastern Congo to put an end to this impunity.
Do you support this demand?
”
Denis Mukwege:
“ Not only do I support it but I have signed a petition calling for an ICT to be set up.
When you start counting the numbers, the millions of deaths and hundreds of thousands of women raped, then they can no longer be ignored. ~~~ We cannot continue to simply count numbers, we have to start a process that will lead to the truth coming out and justice being done.
The world can today draw a red line and say in armed conflicts women should never be used as a battleground and if anyone breaks that rule they should be isolated from society: ”
Audrey Tilve:
“ You have yourself survived an assassination attempt, two years ago, in your home.
After that you went into exile in Belgium, but two months later you returned home, despite your five children and the resumed threats, which continue.
Can’t you imagine living anywhere else?
”
Denis Mukwege:
“ Congo’s women mobilised.
They started by writing to the authorities, all of them, then the UN Secretary General, the president, saying that I had to return and that if the state could not assure my security then they would. ~~~ They really wanted me back.
“ At that point I just thought it was an emotional response but a month later when they saw there was no reaction these women started to organise and every day they sold produce from their fields at the hospital to pay for my return ticket.
That really moved me, I realised their great strength, these women who lived on less than a dollar a day but who were able to club together to get me home.
“ When I finally weighed things up I think these women tipped it because I said to myself in any case, my one life is hardly worth more than the lives of these thousands of women, so I decided to return home.
”
Audrey Tilve:
“ So why don’t you really go to the logical conclusion of your commitment and enter politics, because until the political battle is won victims will continue to come to your hospital, won’t they?
”
Denis Mukwege:
“ Unfortunately what I have seen on my operating table … when I have seen the injuries done to babies I do effectively feel revolted and tell myself this cannot be possible.
This is why I decided to denounce it, but from criticising to joining politics is a big step and I’m not there yet.
”
Audrey Tilve:
“ One last question. ~~~ What keeps you smiling? ~~~ ”
Denis Mukwege:
“ Women.
I cannot tell you how many times I have despaired when treating a woman wondering how she can possibly overcome the injuries she’s suffered.
But they do. ~~~ And they never do it for themselves.
They rise again for their children and their families.
I think we can learn a lot from these women.
”
</text>
<text>
“ Distinguished for his fair play, honesty and social commitment ” : these are the reasons for which Italy manager Cesare Prandelli has recently been honoured with an “ethics in sport” award, one of the many gathered in his life as a player and then manager.
Prandelli, 55 years old, is from a little town near Brescia. ~~~ In 2010 he became coach of the Italian national team, and took them to the runners-up spot in the European football championships in June.
As a footballer he grew up in Cremona, starting as a midfielder.
Atalante heralded the bigtime, but it was at Juventus he enjoyed his peak years, 1979 to 1985 : three Championships, one Champion’s League title, and a Cup-Winners cup, Italian cup and European Supercup.
Yet the regular’s spot in the team always eluded him. ~~~ His is a long career, spanning some of the modern game’s most significant developments.
Euronews’ Roberto Alpino caught up with him at Parma’s football academy.
euronews: ~~~ “ Welcome to Euronews.
How good a player do you think you were? ~~~ ”
Cesare Prandelli:
“ I think I did all right considering I wasn’t super- skilled, but I still had a successful 10 years as a professional, so a good career.
”
euronews: “ So, congratulations, you’re now a grandfather ”
CP: “ Yes, it’s a wonderful experience, especially as I’ve already told my son and daughter-in-law that I’ll be a grandfather just like any other, I’ll be spoiling the children, not bringing them up.
”
“ And being around all the time! ~~~ ” ~~~ “ Absolutely! ~~~ ”
His first managerial steps are taken at Verona, whose fans are currently under fire for abusing Livorno’s Piermario Morsini.
He is on record as saying “ When morons say things like that, I leave the ground.
”
Prandelli’s managerial star rose in the 2002-3 season, driving Parma forward and discovering players like Mutu, Adriano, or Gilardino
“ Yes, I was lucky to find these good players, who had the talent we see today even then, and they’ve given me incredible satisfaction.
”
euronews: “ While we’re talking about youth, is this the Year of the Young Coach?
” ~~~ CP: “ There’s a whole bunch who are proving not only technically skilled, but good at management, which is vital for a young coach.
”
In 2005 he is poached by Fiorentina where Prandelli takes charge and takes a stand against the clubs’ ultra supporters who taunt rivals Juventus with vile chants about their victims in the Heysel disaster 15 years previously.
Prandelli had been there.
CP: “ We cannot pretend this never happened, we must face this, like I did in Florence.
If after that everyone understands you are honest and sincere, the feedback is positive.
”
In 2010 Italy came calling, giving him a four year deal replacing Marcello Lippi after an inglorious World Cup.
He immediately installs a “ code of ethics ” and refuses to select violent players.
Italy easily qualifies for the Euros, but by the end of 2011 a new betting scandal erupts. ~~~ 
“ I approach all these scandals believing they can be important for maturing and developing the game.
They cannot be hushed-up, and we must be ready to learn from them, and get something out of them, ” he says.
euronews: “ So, in Italy, who are Juventus’s main rivals this season?
” ~~~ CP: “ There are several.
I think Fiorentina look good, they look like matching Juve over the season; Inter have momentum after a few wins, but Naples aren’t finished, nor are AC Milan.
They can all come good.
”
Prandelli’s Italy cap for Simone Farina was a deliberate snub to the cheats; he refused a 200,000 euro bribe to throw a match.
“ We’ll always be proud to see Simone represent Italy in the way he does, ” says Prandelli, proudly.
euronews: “ So, to get the negative stuff out of the way, how do you react to the recent negative comments by a journalist in Turin saying Naples fans smell? ~~~ ”
CP: “ Everyone’s laughing at all Italians over one journalist making some inappropriate comments.
I don’t even want to comment to give this person any more importance.
”
euronews: “ You have a lot of praise for Mario Balotelli as an extraordinary player, despite his suspect temperament.
” ~~~ “ He’s better than he likes to seem … ”
euronews: “ He does it deliberately? ~~~ ”
“ No, but he needs to learn to manage his popularity now he’s a public figure, and understand that it’s what he does on the pitch that’s the most important.
”
euronews: “ What about Daniele de Rossi, a player you’ve always admired, breaking your code and lashing out at the Rome derby? ~~~ ”
CP: “ Daniele’s a boy who in the derby matches becomes a fan himself, and drives himself over the top sometimes, but he has an extraordinary heart; he’s already given so much, and will continue to do so.
”
Euro 2012 began with draws against Spain and Croatia.
A win over Ireland took them to the quarter-finals, beating England on penalties.
Germany succumbed in the semis, but Italy were overwhelmed as Spain made sure at the second bite in the final.
CP: “ Spain were just too strong.
We hadn’t recovered, and too many of our players missed their chances in the box.
The one time we had a sniff, we were down to 10 men.
”
euronews: “ So, to change the subject slightly, are you thinking of abandoning football for the cinema?
I see you are playing yourself in a Christmas movie … ”
CP: “ No, absolutely not, I want to be a fulltime Grandfather.
”
euronews: “ Italy’s the first country to have two extra officials behind the goals … ”
CP: “ … a very good thing.
I think the coordination between them needs improvement, because we now have five officials.
”
euronews: “ Are you satisfied with a FIFA number 5 ranking, or is this just the start?
” ~~~ CP: “ It’s the result of the work we’ve done over the last few years, but we need to improve.
The team is in development, with many young players.
We have a duty to do better, and as far as I’m concerned, yes, five is just the start.
”
Italy’s qualification for the 2014 World began in hesitant style, before a brace of three-nil wins against Armenia and Denmark this autumn.
euronews: “ You seem fair set for Brazil.
I can feel you’re superstitious, but in the light of your brilliant Euro performances, what’s your target for 2014?
” ~~~ CP: “ Well, we want to leave superstition out of it; qualify quickly, because it’s not as easy, mathematical, or predictable as everyone seems to think.
Once that’s done, the idea is to grow and develop the team, because a World Cup campaign needs to be undertaken in the best possible way.
”
</text>
<text>
Three years of political stalemate in Moldova ended in March with the election of President Nicolae Timofti.
His republic sits between Romania and Ukraine, a former Soviet republic with fragile relations with a breakaway region, Transnistria, that needs mediation from the EU, US, Ukraine, Russia, and the OSCE, the 5+2 group.
Speaking to the president during his first trip abroad euronews asked Nicolae Timofti why he had chosen to only come to Brussels.
Nicolae Timofti: “ I advanced the concept that we, all the citizens of the Republic of Moldova, should gather round an idea.
This should be European integration.
”
euronews: “ What does Europe mean for your country?
Nicolae Timofti: “ First of all Europe means respect for human rights; restarting an economy based on competition, and it means respect for property law.
”
euronews: “ Don’t you think that there is a contradiction between the fact that the Republic of Moldova is still a member of the Community of Independent States and on the other hand it is taking big steps towards Europe?
”
Nicolae Timofti: “ I wouldn’t say that there is a contradiction, I would rather talk about a clear purpose of the present government and of our nation.
It is not a coincidence that hundreds of thousands of Moldovans are working in European countries.
I also would like to say that I feel sorry about the fact that many of them are getting there illegally.
We are aware of it, the countries in which our citizens are working are aware too.
We would like to change the terms so that they don’t need to hide themselves and don’t try other ways than legal ones.
”
euronews: “ Are negotiations about an ‘Association Agreement’ between your country and the European Union moving forward?
”
Nicolae Timofti: “ The Republic of Moldova is taking concrete action and moving forward quickly, carrying out all its duties to ensure its integration.
”
euronews: “ When do you hope to sign the agreement?
”
Nicolae Timofti: “ I hope it will happen soon, but because I am realistic I know it will not happen next year or in the next years to come.
I hope it will be within a reasonable time.
”
euronews: “ Let us talk about another issue: Transnistria.
How can this problem be solved?
”
Nicolae Timofti: “ The problem is going to be solved in the so-called 5+2 meetings.
We hope the conflict will be solved peacefully.
”
euronews: “ What are the roots of the conflict?
”
Nicolae Timofti: “ The political interests of some states, among them Russia.
”
euronews: “ Who is helping you in solving the conflict? ~~~ ”
Nicolae Timofti: “ We do get the help of the European Union, the US and of some other countries who are interested in a climate of peace in this part of Europe.
”
euronews: “ Do you think it will take much more time in order to find a solution for this conflict?
”
Nicolae Timofti: “ Recently there have been some good signs of a return towards understanding and cooperation with the Left Bank of the Dniester.
A short time ago our prime minister reopened rail freight traffic.
”
euronews: “ Are you not afraid that Transnistria might become for your country a region similar to what South Ossetia is for Georgia?
”
Nicolae Timofti: “ I wouldn’t make this comparison because we are in a different geographical zone.
”
euronews: “ There have been press reports saying that Russia might set up a radar station in Transnistria if NATO installed elements of a missile defence system in Romania.
Would you comment on this media reports?
Nicolae Timofti: “ After a meeting I had with Russian Deputy Premier Rogozin I read that he might have made declarations like this.
During the talks he didn’t make such declarations.
When this information on what apparently he said,was published Rogozin denied that he has made such declarations.
In reality during the talks he never posed the problem like this.
”
euronews: “ Is it hard to be the president of a country which has to fight with poverty and a lot of other problems?
”
Nicolae Timofti: “ Of course it isn’t easy.
It’s very hard, but I took this responsibility in order to help tackle the problem of poverty.
I would like to contribute to a higher standard of living for my country.
”
</text>
<text>
As the barbaric acts committed by the self-styled Islamic State intensify, the Grand Mufti of Egypt, Sheik Shawky Allam, is calling on Europe to bring the terrorists to justice. ~~~ 
Our Charles Salamé asked the Grand Mufti about his stance on terrorism and the young Europeans who are travelling to fight in Syria and Iraq. ~~~ Charles Salamé, euronews
“ Your Eminence Sheik Shawki Allam, Grand Mufti of Egypt, welcome to euronews.
“ Today people are killed in the name of religion.
Do you consider the organisations that spread terror in society and in Arab countries have the right to act under the Islamic flag?
”
Grand Mufti of Egypt, Sheik Shawki Allam ~~~ “ Those who observe these acts of terrorism, who take note of how groups such as ISIL (Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant) act and look at their customs, will discover that these organisations have nothing to do with the true Islamic religion.
“ All of the religious justifications given by such organisations conflict with the real scientific standard that explains the fundamental texts of Islam.
“ For this reason and since the emergence of these organisations, we have said that people must not, under any circumstances, allow the ‘Islamic State qualities’ these organisations assign to themselves to catch on and become the norm.
We’ve already said that this description is false and and we’ve called on the media to correct it by giving the title ‘al-Qaeda offshoots’.
”
euronews ~~~ “ So for you, these are organisations which operate under the Muslim banner but don’t act according to the commandments set out by the religion?
”
Grand Mufti of Egypt, Sheikh Shawki Allam
“ These organisations don’t act on behalf of Islam.
Islam respects mankind, civilisation and structure and does not ever call for destruction, massacre or deportation.
”
euronews ~~~ “ Your Eminence, let’s go back to a subject that is very important on a European level: terrorism.
What is your message to those who wish to fight side by side with these terrorist organisations?
”
“ We can detect many dangers when we take note of recent reports which highlight the capacity and number of those who want to fight because they perceive it to be an act of jihad. ~~~ 
“ Their conception is totally different from the real meaning of ‘jihad’, which has been established through studies and the scientific explanations of Sharia.
“ What is happening is very alarming for Europe.
We hope that European leaders are aware of that.
We want them to be conscious of this dangerous problem because terrorism does not only concern a specific area, but is spreading to every nation.
”
euronews ~~~ “ You ask Europeans to be aware.
What action do you suggest they take?
”
Grand Mufti of Egypt, Sheik Shawki Allam ~~~ “ Europeans must turn to institutions which deal with teaching Islamic thought, such as the Al-Azhar Al-Sharif University in Cairo.
It’s the right path.
Institutions steeped in history will offer an explanation and true understanding of the Islamic religion.
”
euronews ~~~ “ And so, you believe the legitimacy given to Al-Azhar will have an influence on imams in Europe?
”
Grand Mufti of Egypt, Sheik Shawki Allam: ~~~ “ We will attract Europeans’ attention and it’s up to them to evaluate the situation.
But the reports reaching us are very disturbing.
”
euronews ~~~ “ Your Eminence, what do the fatwas have to say and how can we limit those who inspire young Europeans to support jihad?
”
Grand Mufti of Egypt, Sheik Shawki Allam ~~~ “ Our institution in Egypt and the Al-Azhar University are taking steps to spot ideas that are spreading in the media, as well as calls for violence, destruction and devastation.
Our job is to shut down (dismantle) these ideas and give clear advice on each topic raised.
”
euronews ~~~ “ Do you believe these youths are misled for religious or political reasons?
“
Grand Mufti of Egypt, Sheik Shawki Allam
“ A host of factors contribute to this situation: ignorance, poverty, the need, or even desire, to assume any of the powers or the influence of a specific political movement.
“ So they appeal to young people.
It could also be that some are won over by a particular religious idea, which has not been properly understood.
Several, very complex factors are in play, which require greater study and research.
”
euronews ~~~ “ What is your message to these people?
”
Grand Mufti of Egypt, Sheik Shawki Allam ~~~ “ We condemn all acts of terrorism committed in the name of Islam.
We don’t recognise these acts and we don’t authorise them.
Such acts are in total contrast to the reality and understanding of the Islamic religion.
And, as I said at the start of this interview, any act calling for destruction, murder, deportation and annihilation is incompatible with the true notion of Islam.
”
</text>
<text>
Bulgaria’s delayed entry into Schengen, the country’s energy dependency on Russia and its efforts to counter the economic crisis – Prime minister Boyko Borrisov has been speaking to euronews in an exclusive interview in the capital Sofia. ~~~ 
Born in 1959, Borrisov set up a successful private security business before turning to politics.
 ~~~ He was mayor of Sofia before becoming prime minister of the centre-right government.
Hans Von Der Brelie, euronews:
“ Prime Minister, the watchdog of free competition, the European Commission, has started investigations into Gazprom.
Is the Russian gas supplier complying or not to fair competition in Bulgaria? ~~~ ”
Boyko Borrisov:
“ Bulgaria was one of the EU countries most affected by the gas crisis.
Back then, I was mayor of Sofia.
The temperature was between 15 and 12 degrees below zero.
We spent 10 to 15 days without gas and no one helped us.
“ We are assisting the European Commission with its investigation into Gazprom.
Bulgargas and Bulgartransgas handed over all the relevant documents to the Commission a few months ago.
“ Meanwhile we learned our lesson.
That’s why we have now built a gas pipeline interconnection with Romania.
The interconnection with Greece is at a very advanced stage and will be completed in a month or two.
“ Construction work on an interconnector with Turkey and a link to Serbia is about to start.
“ However, the greatest source of energy diversification for Bulgaria is the oil and gas deposits in the Black Sea.
“ I am confident that Bulgaria will successfully diversify its energy supplies within three to four years.
euronews:
“ I will rephrase my question: are you still backing the European pipeline project Nabucco or is Nabucco dead? ~~~ Are you backing the Russian project South Stream?
”
Boyko Borrisov:
“ I hadn’t expected this question, but as it happens, over there, on my desk, there should be a map. ~~~ This map is an answer to your question.
Here lie the prospective gas supplies.
This area will supply Bulgaria with gas. ~~~ And there you have the Russian “ South Stream ” pipeline project.
“ That is the Turkish Tanap pipeline and the Nabucco project, and the Asian gas coming from the Shah Deniz gas field will follow this route.
My finger is pointing at what we are building at the moment.
“ Why we are doing this?
It is very important that the Turkish Tanap-pipeline reaches Bulgaria and that Nabucoo-West and the South East Europe Pipeline move closer to Europe.
“ The other route, the Trans Adriatic Pipeline, is a link to Italy, that is why we are doing our best so that both Nabucco West and the SEEP move ahead. ~~~ 
“ Regarding the Nabucco project, Bulgaria has done all it can: the parliament approved its construction.
We have signed all the documents that are required and we can start construction work tomorrow if necessary.
I am looking forward to the launch of the Nabucco project. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ Given that we are talking about geography, Bulgaria is very much exposed to Greece and its economic problems: What are the consequences of these Greek problems on the Bulgarian economy? ~~~ ”
Boyko Borrisov:
“ Greece is a good neighbour and friend. ~~~ 
However, the EU was very harsh with Bulgaria and Romania, but was very tolerant towards Greece.
And right now, we are all suffering from this tolerance.
The most important thing is to meet the Maastricht criteria, they have to be respected.
“ What has Bulgaria done, so far, in the past three years?
We have carried out a pension reform.
We have increased the retirement age and frozen pensions and salaries.
“ Our budget deficit currently stands at 1.2 percent, and foreign debt is at 14 percent.
Inflation is at zero percent.
“ The only other EU countries whose economic performance is anywhere near ours are Denmark and Finland. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ So are you ready for the European single currency, the euro?
Your finance minister just said that Bulgaria will postpone euro membership.
Can you confirm this? ~~~ ”
Boyko Borrisov:
“ While Bulgaria complies with the Maastricht criteria and, along with Germany, adopts the deficit reduction procedures, other countries are not complying with these criteria.
Why is that?
“ What justifies such populism and nationalism against those who are on the right path?
They should concentrate on sorting out their own financial problems instead. ~~~ 
“ I expect this to materalize in the next year or two. ~~~ Only then will we join the euro-zone.
But I do not think it is fair for Bulgaria, the poorest of EU nations, to join the eurozone now and pay for nations who display such lax behaviour. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ Your country is not a member of the Schengen area.
Schengen membership keeps getting postponed year after year.
Are you starting to get angry about this? ~~~ ”
Boyko Borrisov:
“ Regarding Schengen, what is good for Bulgaria is that EU member states know that the Schengen border is better guarded than in their own countries.
Your citizens can sleep soundly, Bulgaria’s Schengen border is strictly guarded. ~~~ 
“ Huge amounts of drugs are intercepted in Bulgaria, tons and tons of cocaine – 20 tons of hashish one day, 40 tons of cocaine another, three tons of cocaine the next day – altogether hundreds of tons of narcotics, and all of this just over the course of a few months.
euronews:
“ Nevertheless, in its last report, the European Commission was very critical of Bulgaria, saying it was failing to crack down efficiently on high level corruption and organised crime. ~~~ ”
Boyko Borrisov:
“ If we look at the transparency of public procurement guidelines, then Bulgaria fares much better than other European countries.
Regarding criminal gangs: their bosses are either in custody or elsewhere in the world under Interpol Red Notice. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ I had a meeting with the former prime minister of Bulgaria and current opposition leader, Mr Stanishev. ~~~ He said he had serious fears about the upcoming elections following accusations of vote-buying in recent local elections. ~~~ ”
Boyko Borrisov:
“ He has reason to be afraid because we caught his party in Sliven doing exactly that: buying votes.
“ Now, he is thinking ahead about how he can defend himself when he looses the upcoming elections once again.
euronews:
“ The transition period in Bulgaria was very difficult, you have a very colourful past.
Do you personally know anyone involved in organised crime? ~~~ ”
Boyko Borrisov:
“ I have an excellent past record.
These are inventions by Mr Stanishev and his accomplices. ~~~ ”
“ All of my movements and actions are transparent and I don’t depend on anyone.
</text>
<text>
Matteo Manassero is a 19 year-old golfer from Verona, Italy and the youngest ever winner of a European Tour Open.
In 2010, he won the Castelló Masters in Spain aged just 17 and since then has been crowned Rookie of the Year on the PGA European Tour and gone on to notch up his second European Tour trophy by winning the Malaysian Open. ~~~ 
The Italian prodigy regularly takes part in the Grand Slam of Golf and despite occasionally playing in the PGA Tour, can more often than not be found on the European Tour.
He’s been named as the new ‘Tiger Woods’, however this has not been his greatest season to date.
Nevertheless, Manassero has a bright future ahead of him and is determined to achieve his goals.
Claudia Garcia met him as he practiced on a golf course in Turin, Italy.
 ~~~ Euronews: “ Matteo Manassero, let’s talk about the battle between Rory McIlroy and Tiger Woods, a rivalry that has everybody captivated.
” ~~~ Matteo Manassero: “ Of course, I’ve been watching every tournament.
They are fierce competitors.
Rory is playing exceptionally well, and as we know he is the current number one.
Tiger Woods has also been performing at his best, which means that we’re seeing a great battle take place between both of them. ~~~ ”
E: “ Who do you think will be more influential in the Ryder Cup, McIlroy for Europe or Woods for the United States?
” ~~~ M: “ Rory would be fundamental for the European Team.
He is a real star, and the Ryder Cup is never easy.
If he reaches all of his potential, he could be very successful.
Tiger is Tiger, and it’ll be difficult to beat him in Medinah even if his record in the Ryder Cup has not been that good … Rory is absolutely necessary for Europe.
” ~~~ E: “ Tiger Woods is back performing at his best.
He is playing golf at the highest level once again, which is what his supporters expect from him.
Have you had a chance to speak with Tiger about that change?
” ~~~ M: “ No, we’ve met many times, but I don’t know him very well.
But he’s very strong, he’s playing very well once again and has won three Opens, so it’s fantastic.
He is not as effective as he used to be and in the last Majors he missed out on some points, which has never happened to him before.
However, I think the competition is tougher now than before. ~~~ ”
E: “ A golf prodigy is what is now associated with the name Manassero.
You are young, and have already won many trophies, but you remain in the shadow of Rory McIlroy, as he is the current star.
There is a difference of 4 years between both of you, which is not that much in golfing terms.
Do you agree? ~~~ ”
M: “ Yes, you’re right.
Four years is not that much, but certainly Rory is an exceptional player and deserves to be the number one in the world.
I don’t even compare to his style and consistency.
They are completely different, but I hope to one day face him in a very important tournament. ~~~ ”
E: “ The Ryder Cup is fast approaching.
What are the strengths and weaknesses of each team?
” ~~~ M: “ I know the golf course well and I think it’s favourable for the European team.
Colsearts could be a surprise … He’s playing really well at the moment and McIlroy will bring a lot of strength to the team.
He’s the best and could win important points for the team.
The American’s strongest players are Tiger Woods and Buba Watson.
It is more difficult to face them as they have more supporters.
It’s difficult to speak about weaknesses, because in the Ryder Cup, strong players can become a problem.
For example, if Olazabal – the European team captain – decides to put McIlroy on the green four different times and McIlroy gets only one point, he will be a weakness for the team. ~~~ ”
E: “ When will we see Manassero in the Ryder Cup?
” ~~~ M: “ In 2014, I hope.
” ~~~ E: “ Now, you are playing mainly in the European Tour, when do you think you will go to the PGA Tour?
” ~~~ M: “ I haven’t decided yet.
The PGA Tour is more exciting because of the European crisis.
The European Tour is going through a tough financial time, but I still like to be here, I enjoy myself a lot.
I have a lot of friends and my intention for the time being is to stay here. ~~~ ”
” ~~~ M: “ It always has been Severiano Ballesteros.
The reasons are his charisma, his personality and his style on the green.
It was very effective but also unique.
Since I was a child, Ballesteros has always excited me.
” ~~~ E: “ What are your strengths and weaknesses as a golfer?
” ~~~ M: “ I never give up, I’m very determined, but I’m also a little bit stubborn sometimes, in the sense that I don’t change certain aspects of my game.
” ~~~ E: “ Which tournament are you aiming to win in the coming years?
” ~~~ M: “ The Masters. ~~~ ”
E: “ How about the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro? ~~~ ”
M: “ There are still four years to go but I want to be an Olympic Champion. ~~~ It’s one of my main goals.
” ~~~ E: “ What does a 19-year-old do with €3 million?
That is the amount that you have earned over the past two and a half years.
” ~~~ M: “ What have with the money?
I haven’t bought anything special.
I’ve been on several holidays, but mainly I’ve been working hard with the aim of improving my game. ~~~ This is my main focus.
” ~~~ E: “ Have you not bought anything extravagant?
” ~~~ M: “ No, I’ve not spent a lot.
I bought a car, but that’s it. ~~~ ”
E: “ Can you name three things that people really should know about golf?
” ~~~ M: “ The players names, the rules and behaviour on the green.
” ~~~ E: “ Why the behaviour? ~~~ ”
M: “ It is necessary to know how to behave on the golf course. ~~~ ”
E: “ What are the three clichés about golf?
” ~~~ M: “ It’s a sport for old people, it’s too expensive, and not very tiring.
” ~~~ E: “ Give me three reasons why people should follow your career?
” ~~~ E: “ I have many years ahead of me.
I want to play at my best and win many tournaments.
The third reason is up to my supporters. ~~~ ”
M: “ Why do golfers never take their cap off?
” ~~~ E: “ Why?
Because, it is the best place for a sponsor to advertise. ~~~ ”
M: “ Do you take your cap off sometimes?
” ~~~ E: “ Sometimes, I take it off as soon as I leave the golf course. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon is in Strasbourg for the World Forum for Democracy at the Council of Europe. ~~~ 
Euronews caught up with him and asked him about the main challanges faced by the international community and the future aims and goals of the United Nations in an ever more fragile and uncertain world.
Giovanni Magi, euronews: ” The Arab Spring has raised hopes all around the world, but the transition to democracy seems very difficult and in some cases adds new geopolitical tensions. ~~~ 
How can the UN can contribute to this transition?
” ~~~ UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon :
“ I’m sure that wind of change will continue to blow. ~~~ 
We have seen very positive developments in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, Yemen and elsewhere, while still we have troubles by the continuing violence in Syria.
 ~~~ And therefore we need to help those countries in transition.
That is one of my top priorities as the Secretary General of the United Nations. ~~~ 
We need to bring immediate end to the violence in Syria.
Nineteen months have passed already, more than 20 thousand people have been killed.
I myself and together with joint special representative Lakhdar Brahimi will continue to consult with the countries, key countries, to resolve this issue as soon as possible.
 ~~~ This is our political and moral responsibility to help those people.
euronews: ” In the last General Assembly you said that you are against the threat of military action by one State against another.
Where you referring to the war of words between Iran, Israel and the United States?
” ~~~ UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon:
“ I have warned to the members of the United Nations that exchanges of very strong political rethoric, shrill talk of war, is very alarming, doesn’t help anybody.
 ~~~ Therefore I have been urging them to refrain from using such rethoric.
 ~~~ That means all the pending issues should be resolved peacefully through a dialog, and this message has been conveyed to the parties concerned, both Iran and Israel.
 ~~~ Iran must fully comply with the relevant resolution of the Security Council and fully cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency. ~~~ 
The world has a serious concern about their intentions of nuclear issues.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Another international emergency is that of Mali, Northern Mali.
The Security Council is discussing right now of a possible military intervention.
Do you think that it’s a suitable solution to the problem? ~~~ ”
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon :
“ We have been urging that the Constitutional authority should be returning to normalcy. ~~~ 
The Northern part of Mali has been run by these extreme Islamists.
 ~~~ They are applying extreme Islamic law, Sharia law. ~~~ 
This is a totally unacceptable situation.
 ~~~ Interim leader of Mali, Traoré, has asked to the United Nations to deploy some military forces.
 ~~~ I know that the Security Council have been discussing this matter … but before deploying any military forces we need to be very careful …
I would urge that all issues should be resolved through peaceful purposes, including Mali.
The countries in Sahel area are suffering multiple crisis, political instability, security instability and coupled with humanitarian situations.
United Nations is mobilising all necessary humanitarian agencies to provide urgent humanitarian assistance. ~~~ 
And I’m going to appoint a special envoy on the Sahel.
The special envoy, whom I have proposed to the Security Council, will coordinate with key partners in the region.
euronews: “ In the last General Assembly, you said that “ We live in a time of distress, marked by growing unemployment, inequality and intolerance.
The United Nations must rise to this situation.
How? ~~~ ”
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon :
“ I have sounded a strong alarm to the world leaders: we are living on an era of instability, inequality, injustice, intolerance.
We have to address these issues. ~~~ 
These are the collective responsibilities of the world leaders, particularly when world economic situation is still going very difficult way.
 ~~~ I have condemned this video which ridiculed and criticised the leaders of certain religions. ~~~ 
Everybody has a freedom of speech and freedom of expression.
But that doesn’t mean that one should provoke hate and anger through this abuse of freedom of speeches.
 ~~~ At the same time, violence cannot be justified in any circumstances.
Therefore, anything should be resolved through mutual understanding and mutual respect for the others’ values and belief.
This is what the United Nations is going to focus more through Alliance of Civilisations.
euronews: “ Do you think the current structure of the United Nations to be effective to address the major problems of international coexistence or is there a need to reform the organization? ~~~ ” ~~~ UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon :
“ The United Nations has been continuously trying to adapt to changing world by reforming, in terms of institutional reform, in terms of changing our management style. ~~~ 
However, it’s not the institution which causes a problem … it’s a political will, lack of political will.
 ~~~ If there is strong political will, where leaders come out with very concrete and decisive will, we can overcome the weakness of institutions. ~~~ 
The Security Council reform has been discussed by the member states such a long time and
Ecosoc has reformed and I also, as a priority to change management of the United Nations, so that UN can meet the expectations of the international community in a more efficient, effective, more transparent and accountable way.
That’s my strong commitment.
” ~~~ … … … … … … … … …
UN initiative Alliance of Civilizations:
http://www.unaoc.org/?lang=fr
</text>
<text>
 ~~~ Franco Zeffirelli, who turns 90 this year, welcomes us inside his home.
Zeffirelli rose to fame in the 1960s with classics such as ‘Romeo and Juliet’ and ‘The Taming of the Shrew’ starring Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton.
Franco Zeffirelli talks to us about his long and rich career, and his hopes for Italy ahead of this month’s general election.
Eri Garuti, euronews: “ Maestro Zeffirelli, if you were to shoot a film on Italy today, how would you depict your country for the rest of the world to understand it?
What kind of film would you shoot? ~~~ ”
Franco Zeffirelli: “ The key words that best describe Italy are still the same.
What emerges throughout the country and over the centuries is this “ couldn’t care less ” attitude, some people’s superiority over others, the way we always try to find defects in others while trying to hide our own.
Nevertheless, Italy is the cradle of much of the world’s culture.
We, Italians, all too often neglect the fact that we gave the world a number of discoveries, not only artistic, but also scientific and in the fields of medicine and astronomy.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Do you like Italy as it is today? ~~~ ”
Franco Zeffirelli: “ Italy today has the appearance of a world power and, it is, in a way, from an economic point of view.
But there is also a great confusion of opinion and a ridiculous number of political parties.
In the first years of our democracy, there were two clear sides.
In those days, the world was also divided in two: on the one side, the communists, and on the other, the capitalists.
euronews: “ You experimented with politics with Forza Italia, the party founded by Silvio Berlusconi: you were elected senator in 1994.
What memories do you have of that time? ~~~ ”
Franco Zeffirelli: “ I didn’t lead a politician’s life.
Rather, I tried, through my commitment, to embody the qualities of the Italian people and the principles of a certain political philosophy, totally opposed to fascism.
Generally, politicians should not get involved in culture because it just makes them look foolish.
And vice versa, men of culture should not get involved in politics because that isn’t possible in Italy.
euronews: “ But if you were culture minister today, what would you do? ~~~ ”
Franco Zeffirelli: “ I would open schools everywhere so that young people would no longer be entrusted to teachers who give them a mistaken view of society.
You mustn’t forget that a lot of Man’s most important deeds were born on our little peninsula.
All too often, we neglect the responsibility that is ours.
It’s always been that way.
euronews: “ Are you still in touch with Silvio Berlusconi? ~~~ ”
Franco Zeffirelli: “ Yes, I like him.
Of course, he has flaws, but I like them.
The problem with flaws, is that you either like them or not.
In some people, you don’t like them, but in others, you do.
Ok, so Berlusconi goes and sees prostitutes, but that’s life.
Apart from that, he’s a self-made man.
euronews: “ Do you have plans for a museum in Florence? ~~~ ”
Franco Zeffirelli: “ I am currently working on a project to set up a foundation that would be named after me.
I have had a long and rich life and I think I still have some days, weeks or years ahead of me, I don’t know.
I want to leave behind everything I have done so that others can benefit from it.
At the heart of this foundation, there will be a permanent exhibition on everything I have done in my life. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ You enjoy world-wide recognition.
Which actors or artists did you get along with best? ~~~ ”
Franco Zeffirelli: “ The job of an actor is very important because it gives human beings the opportunity to break down the barrier of reality and open up a world of fantasy.
Theatre is a like a door which allows people to pass on dreams to each other. ~~~ When an audience goes to see a show, it is bewitched.
A great actor allows each member of the audience to understand what is hidden deep inside him.
euronews: “ Which opera do you think best represents Italy throughout the world? ~~~ ”
Franco Zeffirelli: “ There are many.
But for me, personally, I am totally enslaved to La Bohème.
When I listen to it, I stop anything I am doing, and I am transported into the wonderful memory of that piece by the extraordinary madman who was Puccini.
And finally, can you tell us what are your hopes for Italy? ~~~ ”
Franco Zeffirelli: “ We can do anything we want, as long as we make good use what destiny blessed us with.
With his qualities, spiritual and creative energy, each man can create his own little paradise. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Can the euro, and indeed Europe, survive the region’s current debt crisis?
One person who is well qualified to speak on that is the economist, Professor Jean-Paul Fitoussi, from Sciences Po University in Paris and Luiss University of Rome, who recently published a book on the subject.
 ~~~ Giovanni Magi, euronews: “ The treaty on stability, coordination and governance – the budgetary pact signed in March 2012 – forces eurozone countries to put balancing their budget into their constitutions, making it illegal not to.
You have been critical of the pact, was there really nothing good about it?
”
Professor Jean-Paul Fitoussi:* “ It’s not a question of whether there’s nothing good or if it’s all good.
The problem is knowing what is the significance of something that requires EU member states to balance their budgets.
It makes one think of a plan that has been created for a federation of states.But the European problem is that there is no federation.
So the big difficulty here is we find ourselves increasingly federated, and less and less a federation.
“ If you like, this budgetary pact refers to the lack of a political Europe, and it raises the question of what is happening with this integration process where democracy is being reduced within each member state without increasing democracy at the federal level.
So there’s a real basic problem.
But behind this budget issue, there is the problem of respecting the economic rules.
In the past all they cared about was the currency, now all they care about is budget discipline.
But Europeans are very dogmatic, very much focused just on that, and so they try to explain everything by that.
Before the creation of the single European currency, inflation was the factor; after the creation of the single European currency balanced budgets and public debt are the factors.
”
euronews: “ Exactly, you said that national debts are sovereign, but the euro is a currency without a country.
Without a political union is the banking union that has has been agreed, is it enough? ~~~ ”
Fitoussi: “ Yes and no.
Firstly, it’s not exactly right when I say that the debts are sovereign but there’s no sovereign currency.
The problem is that the European countries are running up debt (borrowing) in a currency over which they have no control.
That means they get into debt in a foreign currency.
And so they can go bankrupt.
If a country borrows in a currency it controls, it can never become insolvent.
If emerging countries go bankrupt, that is because their debts are in a foreign currency.
That means there is a defect in the structure, that opens it up to speculation.
”
euronews: “ What can be done to reduce, or prevent, this speculation over whether a state is solvent (has the means to repay its debts)?
Fitoussi: “ It’s pretty simple, we could do what we did when the single currency was created, when the exchange markets for individual currencies (franc, mark, drachma, etc) disappeared, it was no longer possible to speculate in those European currencies.
Now we have to create a single equity or security for debt.
That way it would not be possible for investors to speculate on European sovereign debt (government bonds) “
euronews: “ You mean Eurobonds … ”
Fitoussi: “ Eurobonds – I’d call it a “ single bond ” .
That means there is only European debt; just like in the United States there’s just one debt; just like in Japan.
There’s just one debt in the federated states, and there is one central bank which is always the lender of last resort.
“
euronews: “ When François Hollande was elected President of France, you said you agreed with much of his economic programme.
Do you still hold that view?
”
Fitoussi: “ Look, everything I’m saying shows that I actually agree with the renegotiation of the ” fiscal compact “ .
But there were no renegotiations.
And François Hollande signed that budgetary treaty that he’d said he didn’t want to sign unless there were changes.
”
euronews: “ Swiss voters recently decided through a referendum to limit corporate executives’ high salaries.
Do you think that’s just a symbolic gesture, or should other countries do the same?
”
Fitoussi: “ It’s a bit of both and I think it might actually be quite effective in providing an example to other countries, but Europe is not in a good position to learn the lesson.
Because Europe has a competitive tax system.
So if a European country began to want to do the same as Switzerland, some of its citizens might go off and live in places with a better tax regime for them.
”
euronews: “ One lesson that can be drawn from the recent past is that the European Union as it is now, is not working, it’s not one thing or the other.
If we can’t solve this problem and move towards political union, does that mean we’ll have to give up on the whole ‘European Project’?
”
Fitoussi: “ I don’t know.
Look, this is a question that I find very problematic.
Because I see people suffering, everywhere.
In Italy, Greece, obviously, Spain, France, Germany, where poverty has increased considerable – in Britain – and people are committing suicide, which is not a normal thing, so they want change.
And before long they’ll start thinking: there is no possibility of change.
So, Europe has to change, or the people themselves might give up (on the European project).
But that’s very complicated, because it means that we’d be dropping out of the race just before reaching the finish line.
We set out to create a single people: and we will have been deflected from that by a dogmatic approach.
”
</text>
<text>
On the anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on the US, NATO chief Anders Fogh Rasmussen spoke to euronews at the Alliance’s headquarters in Brussels.
Rasmussen shared his thoughts on the final stages of the NATO mission in Afghanistan, launched shortly after 9/11.
He also commented on the contentious issue of the missile defence system and tensions in the Caucasus.
Andrei Beketov, Euronews:
Secretary General, thank you for welcoming us at the NATO headquarters in Brussels.
It’s the anniversary of the attacks on the United States when nearly 3,000 people died.
Since then, an even bigger number of coalition troops have been killed in Afghanistan trying to prevent similar attacks.
Now, Afghan soldiers are killing Americans who train them.
And of course the toll on Afghan people is immense.
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, NATO Secretary General:
Every one single killing or soldier falling is one too many, obviously. ~~~ Having said that we should also recall what was the purpose of the establishment of an international military operation in Afghanistan.
The purpose was, and it remains, to prevent that country from once again becoming a safe haven for terrorists who could use it as a launching pad for attacks against our societies.
And in that respect our operation has been a great success.
We have not seen terrorists routed in Afghanistan launch attacks against our countries since we started our operation in Afghanistan.
Euronews:
Hasn’t NATO repeated the Soviet Union’s mistakes by underestimating the local population’s resistance to its presence?
And isn’t NATO heading for a similar undignified retreat?
Rasmussen:
No, on the contrary. ~~~ We have actually learned the lessons.
And one clear difference is that we have built up a very strong Afghan security force which will take over.
Euronews:
But there is a lot of mistrust.
Bagram prison was handed over to Afghan authorities but Americans will still control part of it and some of the inmates.
Rasmussen:
The transfer of detainees to Afghan responsibility is part of the overall transition of security responsibility to the Afghans.
But obviously we also have to strike the right balance between Afghan sovereignty and security for the Afghan security forces and our troops.
Euronews:
After 2014 will the NATO troops return to their barracks to defend their countries or do you still have unfinished business elsewhere?
Rasmussen:
It’s for each individual coalition partner to decide whether they will engage in other international missions, for instance United Nations mandated missions, elsewhere.
Euronews:
But you are not considering Syria or … ?
Rasmussen:
No.
We have no intention to intervene militarily in Syria and we have no plans to intervene militarily elsewhere.
Euronews:
President Putin has suggested that if Barack Obama is re-elected there could be a compromise over NATO’s missile defence system in Europe. ~~~ If Mitt Romney is elected he could turn the system against Russia.
Do you think the future of the system depends on who wins the American election?
Rasmussen:
Not at all.
We have made clear to the Russians that the NATO missile defence system is not designed to attack Russia or undermine Russia’s strategic deterrence.
And obviously we have no intention whatsoever to attack Russia.
Actually Russia and NATO signed a joint document in 1997 called “ The founding act ” . ~~~ In that document Russia and NATO clearly state that we will not use force against each other.
We stick to that commitment.
I hope and I would also expect that Russia also sticks to that commitment.
Euronews:
But Russia expects some harder guarantees, some binding guarantees.
Why don’t you give it to them?
Rasmussen:
Because the best guarantee Russia could get whatsoever would be to engage constructively in a cooperation on missile defence.
We have even suggested to establish some joint centres so that they could see with their own eyes that our system is not directed against Russia.
Euronews:
Your have just urged Russia to be more transparent over its military exercises later this month.
What is your concern?
Are you worried that these exercices will take place near Georgia, almost coinciding with elections there?
Rasmussen:
We are not opposed to exercises but we request transparency as a confidence building measure: what is the purpose of the exercise, where does it take place, how is this exercise conducted?
Euronews:
What information is missing?
Why is it not fully transparent?
Rasmussen:
We have not received any formal information from Russia, which we strongly regret.
Euronews:
But you seem very keen to see Georgia joining NATO.
Obviously it’s going to anger Russians even more.
How far is NATO ready to move into what Moscow considers its sphere on interest?
Rasmussen:
We stick to a very fundamental principle to which all nations in the Euro-Atlantic area signed up in 1999 in an OSCE charter.
That fundamental principle is that each individual nation has a right to decide its alliance affiliation itself.
I hope Russia also sticks to that. ~~~ So it’s for Georgia to decide.
And Georgia has declared that it is a Georgian aspiration.
And in 2008 NATO decided at a summit in Bucharest that Georgia will become a member of NATO, of course provided that Georgia fullfills the necessary criteria.
Euronews:
The last question is on Armenia, a country which you have just visited. ~~~ You may have seen anti-NATO protests.
Don’t you feel any responsibility for what happened to this Armenian soldier killed at the NATO course in Budapest?
Rasmussen:
This is a very unfortunate case.
But let me stress that I was not faced with anti-NATO demonstrations. ~~~ I was faced with young protestors who demonstrated against the Azerbaijani decision to pardon the military officer Safarov.
That terrible crime shouldn’t be glorified.
And I am deeply concerned that the Azerbaijani decision to pardon this army officer damages trust and it certainly doesn’t contribute to peace, to cooperation and reconciliation in the region.
Euronews: ~~~ Mr Rasmussen, thank you very much for speaking to Euronews. ~~~  ~~~ Rasmussen: ~~~ You are welcome.
</text>
<text>
Portugal is going through a serious economic crisis.
First quarter results show a four per cent contraction on the same period 12 months ago, it follows two years of recession.
It is an example of the European Union in crisis.
Euronews Michel Santos spoke to Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva about the turbulence sweeping Europe.
Michel Santos, euronews:
“ Mr President you follow European events closely, you have been a prime minister for 10 ten years and are now in a second term as president.
How did Portugal get into this situation?
”
President Cavaco Silva:
“ We have reached a situation of excessive external state debt after the ease with which the state , banks and companies were able to borrow in the eurozone, that has led to excessive debt within families.
The crisis was triggered in the US in 2008, the reaction of the EU was not the most realistic.
In the beginning EU states were advised to adopt expansionist policies.
In other words increase their debt.
Only later did we realise that some nations required a limit on borrowing.
”
Michel Santos: “ So European Union crisis management has failed?
”
President Cavaco Silva:
“ I would say that the European Union, and it is clear, has failed to promote growth and job creation.
Something has failed in the economic policy of the European Union as a whole, but also in the economic policies of member states.
”
Michel Santos:
“ In a recent report the International Monetary Fund spoke of mistakes in the first bailout programme for Greece.
”
President Cavaco Silva:
“ The time has come to rethink the Troika, its composition and role in implementing the bailouts.
It is my personal opinion that the task should be left to European institutions in design, surveillance and adjustments, because the objectives of the EU are very different from those of the IMF.
”
Michel Santos:
“ What action is needed in order to revive the credibility to the European project ?
”
President Cavaco Silva:
“ Firstly we need to find a solution to our major concern, which is unemployment.
A programme to tackle youth unemployment is being established.
Beyond that ~~~ the EU needs more tools, the ones from the past are not enough to deal with present or future problems.
That is why it is key to create an Economic and Monetary Union.
The most important step, for me, is a banking union because it would contribute to the financing of enterprises across Europe, in particular the eurozone.
”
Michel Santos:
Should the troika bailouts have been implemented blindly, without respect for people and an almost total disregard for the consequences?
”
President Cavaco Silva:
“ Well, there is a change, since adjustments are being made in the programs.
More time has been given to countries to tackle excessive debt, as is the case in Portugal and others, like France and Spain, so we must recognise that things are changing in European institutions and member states.
I think the bailout programs have to give special priority to growth, both economic and in employment.
If not, the divide between European citizens and their leaders will be much wider and that is a worry, as elections take place in 2014.
”
Michel Santos:
“ In Portugal all sectors of society are calling for the government to resign.
You are, obviously, giving priority to stability, a very difficult task.
Do you still have the political backing?
”
President Cavaco Silva:
“ The Portuguese President does not govern and is not responsible for government policy.
The government is accountable to the parliament.
The lack of trust in the Portuguese President is not a reason for the government to resign.
The President has the power to dissolve the national assembly, known as the atom bomb, and the atom bomb is not used in a reckless way.
I have a commitment to study the Portuguese situation and it is my belief as a result of all information that I have – and I have a lot – if Portugal goes into a full-blown political crisis then we will be in a much worse situation than the one we are in already.
”
Michel Santos:
“ This is a question that the Portuguese people ask a lot. ~~~ From the financial and economic disaster of the Portuguese state to the ruinous management of public enterprises.
Why is no one held to account, why is no one facing the courts, do we have a justice problem?
”
President Cavaco Silva:
“ We cannot generalise.
It is clear that the crisis in the justice system is being solved, especially the speed lawsuits are processed.
In a recent opinion poll several entrepreneurs recognise our justice system is fair.
So I think that the idea that you have just presented is incorrect.
public life in Portugal is enormously transparent.
”
Michel Santos:
“ But there’s a feeling of impunity for some people that have government responsibilities.
”
President Cavaco Silva:
“ Show me one case.
Those that govern in Portugal are, fortunately, permanently scrutinised by the media, by public opinion.
I doubt that there is more scrutiny in other countries than in Portugal.
”
Michel Santos:
“ If you could go back to your time as prime minister, would you change any of your policies? ~~~ ”
President Cavaco Silva:
“ I think that the Portuguese membership to the EU, the first ten years not only have consolidated our democracy but have also given a notable contribution to the development of the country.
As you know Portugal entered the European Union with a per capita income within the EU average.
After 10 -15 years we had 75 %.
Never in our history, in such a short period, have we had such big recovery in terms of the country’s development.
”
Michel Santos:
“ Even in the Agricultural sector you would keep the policies?
”
President Cavaco Silva:
“ I would say that it is the one that I am most proud.
Because we made the CAP reform, our agriculture had very low productivity, the farmers had a very low income level.
Now you can see that Portugal has a self-sufficiency of 81 percent our farmers have modernised their operations and are now a net contributor.
It is now the sector that is showing growth in the Portuguese economy.
”
Mr.
President, thank you very much.
</text>
<text>
As president of the European Commission for 10 years, Jacques Delors has been one of the principal architects of the EU.
With the Nobel Peace Prize going to the European Union, euronews met him at the Paris office of “ Our Europe ” , the think-tank he set up.
Giovanni Magi, euronews: “ Thinking back to the moment you learned the Norwegian committee had chosen the EU for the Nobel Peace Prize, what was your first reaction, your first thought?
” ~~~ Jacques Delors, former President of the European Commission: “ I thought of all the fathers of Europe and the decisive moments marked by a vision and a feeling that’s spiritual, even moral.
And I also thought of all the activists for the European cause, because it’s not easy.
There are delicate times, like now, so I also expect some sarcasm from certain social networks and newspapers, but I consider it a reward and an energising force for all Europeans.
euronews: “ The Norwegian Nobel committee spoke of the enlargement of the European Union as a new era in history.
But critics have often said that expansions, particularly 2004 when 10 countries joined at the same time, are the source of the Union’s policy management problems.
What do you think? ~~~ ”
Jacques Delors: “ On the one hand there’s the political vision with very successful enlargement – that’s Spain and Portugal.
The leaders at the time – I was the Commission president then – wanted to show their people who were emerging from a form of dictatorship, that we would open our arms to them so they could try to renew or re-establish democracy.
 ~~~ “ And at the same time, because their standard of living was lower than average, I had proposed this policy of cohesion which now represents more than a third of the European budget.
“ That was a big moment.
Then, as for the countries of EFTA, the free-trade area founded by Britain to counter the original six members of the Common Market, I proposed a big free-trade zone with them.
And yes, apart from Norway they all preferred to join.
“ And then there was the fall of the Berlin Wall.
It opened the way to enlargement for other countries.
I still think that this enlargement was done too quickly.
We didn’t try to put our own house in order before welcoming them in.
“ And what’s more I was beaten at the European Council in Lisbon in 1992 when I said they will join, but don’t put us under pressure.
I wanted first to sort out our institutions and financial rules.
But there was enthusiasm to do it there and then, or maybe also for some political aims, anyway in my opinion, enlargement and deepening was not very well balanced.
euronews: “ The financial and economic crisis has highlighted the limits of the euro.
Was the single currency a good idea in the end? ~~~ ”
Jacques Delors: “ Yes.
It was a good decision but with a flaw in the construction.
If you look at the report from the Delors committee — that’s what it’s called I’m sorry — the report that followed the European Council’s request on how the euro could be done, there was an economic section and a monetary section.
“ The economic part had been neglected and that construction fault is what’s made us pay dearly subsequently, because there was no co-ordination of economic policy, no open discussions between ministers which would have let everyone see that Ireland, Spain and Portugal were heading head-long into danger.
And why?
Because at that moment the euro protected, but did not stimulate. ~~~ The euro even protected our mistakes.
And it’s this flaw in construction that we have to fix today.
euronews: “ What has to be done to instil people with trust in Europe?
Jacques Delors: “ The countries that are in difficulties, when I read their reactions, they never say ‘Our governments have made blunders, we are paying for them’.
No, they say ‘It’s the dominant ideology, or even it’s Europe’s fault’.
“ So there’s never been as much need to explain Europe in terms of what it brings and what it represents as a project for the future. ~~~ 
“ I’ll tell you simply, since I’m no longer in the business and in my day things were a little simpler, but these causes have to be attacked.
Firstly, it’s not for the president of the Commission to go touring all over Europe.
 ~~~ “ Governments, instead of saying it’s Brussels’ fault or the United States’ fault, should be saying, ‘You know, that’s how we’ve done it up until now, we have to continue, and we’ll get there in the end’, whether it’s from a point of view of living together, or employment and development.
euronews: “ Will there be political union in Europe one day?
Jacques Delors: “ I can’t see it at the moment.
What I see is this: since differentiation has always been one of the driving forces in Europe, I believe that the eurozone will have to be consolidated, with the strengthened cooperation that is foreseen in the treaties.
And the eurozone will have its own budget, its own mechanism of economic regulation and a European debt agency, which would be able to keep an eye out and maybe express solidarity before the storm hits.
“ And then I see a great Europe, open, basically founded on the single market, the four freedoms of circulation — people, services, goods and capital — but also with a world view — of development aid and neighbourhood policies, and everything that is done for victims of tragedies — and I see this great Europe as a model that could inspire a reform of the United Nations. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Maybe the euro-crisis has discouraged potential future members – like Turkey for example?
Jacques Delors: “ I think there have been too many European statesmen who have said: ‘Never Turkey’.
Personally I think that was a big mistake because we have given the world the impression that we are this Christian group, this Christian club, and there’s nothing quite so good at driving a wedge between people.
“ There is already enough of a struggle against the integralists, those who deny others, who even want to attack others, to create troubles so they can’t be added.
“ Too many governments think small.
I’ll end by explaining that with a phrase from the former president of ‘Our Europe’ Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa who was a remarkable finance minister in the Prodi government.
He used to say: ‘Rigour in the nations, recovery in Europe.’ If you applied that to financial perspectives, simply adding 200-billion for the whole of the period, and if that 200-billion was dedicated to ecological growth, infrastructure and research, believe me Europe would find its feet again.
”
</text>
<text>
He is one of the most respected and influential foreign policy veterans in Washington: Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security adviser under President Jimmy Carter.
Brzezinski was one of the earliest establishment supporters of the then-Senator Barack Obama for president.
In an exclusive interview with euronews, Brzezinski praises Obama’s new foreign policy team and urges Europe, America’s number one ally, to provide more evocative forward-looking leadership.
Stefan Grobe, euronews Washington correspondent: Dr.
Brzezinski, Barack Obama picked two former Senate colleagues of his to run the State and Defense departments, John Kerry and Chuck Hagel.
Both men draw heavily on Vietnam War experience.
Is that a mere coincidence or is there a particular Obama message behind these nominations?
Zbigniew Brzezinski: Oh, it’s a little bit of both.
I don’t think it’s designed, particularly, to convey in some fashion the importance of the lessons to be drawn from Vietnam, but on the other hand it certainly was a major episode in America’s adventure on the global scale.
And in that sense both of them distinguish themselves and both, probably, are wise enough to draw some wider lessons from it.
euronews: Do we have something like an Obama doctrine, yet?
Brzezinski: We have an Obama doctrine, but I have often said – and at some political risk to myself – we have an Obama doctrine, we don’t have an Obama strategy.
I think these two guys can provide the strategy for the doctrine.
euronews: And what should that strategy be?
Brzezinski: I think it should, first of all, take as its point of departure the recognition of the fact that the traditional global conflicts that we witnessed over the last 200 years, are no longer going to be waged in the future.
That is to say the notion of global hegemony by a single power is no longer feasible, even for the most powerful.
But at the same time we are going to be faced with many more simultaneous conflicts with some potentially high risks.
And therefore our response has to be far more intelligent, diversified, hopefully collegial with other major states, and avoid a kind of total confrontation that was implicit in our recent historic experience.
euronews: The first year of a US president’s second term is always a promising moment, because the president has a lot of foreign policy capital.
He has a full four years to be creative and doesn’t need to care about reelection.
How should Obama spend this capital?
What should be his priorities?
Brzezinski: I think the priorities are, to some extent, dictated by what we already confront which is increasing conflict and tension in the Middle East; on a variety of fronts in the Middle East, not just the traditional one which is the Israeli-Palestinian one, but the Syrian front and its potential for wider regional tensions.
He has to confront the risks posed by Iran.
But then beyond that, if you look at the map of the world and if you look at a sort of the southern boundaries of Eurasia, starting with North Korea through the China Sea, India and China, Afghanistan and Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, Syria, then all the way to Suez and Egypt, and then all the way to Niger and Mali – we are confronting a real belt of potentially explosive circumstances.
euronews: Let’s talk about Europe.
There are some observers who believe that under Obama America has turned European.
Now, I should take this as a compliment, but it is, of course, poignant sarcasm here … We know that Europe has a lot of problems, that there was a lot that went wrong in Europe, but we also know that Europe eventually demonstrated a sense of responsibility and showed political leadership.
And I want to ask you this: Is there anything that America can learn from Europe these days?
Brzezinski: Well, in a way, yes.
If it looks at Europe and some of its problems it’s almost like a mirror image of some of our problems: serious fiscal problems, socio-economic conflicts, some serious polarisation internally, gridlock politically and the absence of a shared and compelling vision of the future.
So we can each learn from the problems of the other.
But I am optimistic about both. ~~~ I think we will get on top of our issues, and I think the Europeans, and particularly in the European Union, will pull through.
euronews: Looking at the competition between the United States and emerging global powers like China, India, Russia – does America still need Europe or does it need Europe even more today?
Brzezinski: You mentioned China, India, Russia as the emerging powers.
If you look more closely, one of them is an emerging power. ~~~ The two others are not.
One is struggling with a nostalgia for the past and the other one has a somewhat exaggerated opinion of itself, given its overall socio-economic condition, but a great potential and promise.
There is one emerging power and that is China.
And of course we have to pay attention to it.
But Europe is an enormously important entity already: it’s our principal trading partner, our principal global ally, and has potentially a great vitality with which to contribute meaningfully to the global condition – provided the Europeans address seriously the question of what kind of a future they want.
There are some tendencies in Europe toward particularisms, some sort of nostalgic tendencies to turn backwards – that will not solve Europe’s problems.
And Europe needs today much more evocative forward-looking leadership of the kind it had some decades ago and which today is lacking.
euronews: Political tensions with Russia have escalated sharply since the passage of the Magnitsky Act, Russian legislation to bar Americans from adopting Russian children and the firing of Radio Liberty’s Moscow staff.
Against this backdrop: How do you judge Obama’s ‘reset’ with Russia?
Was Obama too naive?
How do you see it?
Brzezinski: Well, I certainly don’t think it was a total failure and I don’t think it was naïve.
First, it was very limited, just think of the name, RESET.
There is nothing terribly ambitious about it.
It comes from the computer age, right?
And what is the reset of the computer?
It’s not some dramatic act changing what’s in the computer or on the computer.
It’s a readjustment. ~~~ So it’s a modest definition of objectives.
And I think that is being pursued, but it is being pursued now in a much more difficult setting because of the reappearance of Putin.
And Putin number two is much less effective and much less attractive than Putin number one.
He is preoccupied with the past, with the notion of the Great Russian power worldwide, with the creation of something like the Soviet Union with a new name.
Those are unrealistic objectives which, in the end, I don’t think even the majority of Russians will support.
euronews: Do you think we are going to see a ‘reset’ of the ‘reset’ in Obama’s second term?
Brzezinski: There will be some agreements and there will be some disagreements.
</text>
<text>
In 2012, Jorge Lorenzo became the Moto GP World Champion for the second time.
The 25 year old Spanish rider had consistent good results and in the second half of the season had a really strong Dani Pedrosa hot on his heels.
Lorenzo may have lost a few races but he was victorious in the end.
He is working hard during this Winter break preparing for the new season when he will once again share the Yamaha box with Valentino Rossi.
What will this next season be like – who will be the number 1 rider – and what will the future hold for Mallorca’s warrior?
Euronews met up with him to find the answers to these questions and much more.
Euronews: ‘‘Jorge, who’s going to win the 2013 World Championship?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘I don’t know, I’d like to see into the future, but I haven’t got that super power.
I’d like to be the winner and I’ll fight to win.
I’ll work hard, race after race.
But at the moment I really don’t know.
The big favourites will be me, Dani Pedrosa, Valentino Rossi and Marc Marquez.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘In the first test session in Sepang earlier this month you were second.
Are you satisfied and how’s the feeling with the Yamaha M1?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘Really positive.
It’s always important to test all the parts, cause this bike will more or less be the right one for the whole year.
We improved the chassis, so the bike is faster now in the curves, but there is still something missing in the engine.
We’re going to work on it now.
It needs more power with greater acceleration on the straight.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘Your first experience having Rossi as your teammate in Yamaha didn’t go so well.
The wall inside the box became a big talking point.
Will it be there again?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘There won’t be any wall this season and I think it was given too much importance when it was there.
It got too much media coverage with Yamaha being the first team to put up a wall between two riders.
I always said it was really easy to cross.
You just had to take a few steps behind or in front of it and you could get to the other side.
I think it was more for the media than anything else.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘Will there be any secrets between you, though?
And who will be the number 1?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘No secrets this time… and about the number 1… well, there won’t be a number 1!
In Yamaha, there’s no number 1 or number 2, Both riders are always given the same equipment.
When I arrived in MotoGP, I was 20 years old, Valentino (Rossi) was at the top winning a lot of races and championships, and at that time I didn’t feel in any way that I was number 2.
Now, that he’s coming back after two quite disappointing years for him, I don’t feel I’m the number 1 either.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘Jorge, what if, at the end of next season, you’re out of the title battle, with Rossi still in?
Would you help him to win?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘Yes, I would because we’re in the same team, we represent the same brand.
If Yamaha wins, it’s better for both of us.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘Let’s look back at the 2012 season.
When did you really feel that you were going to win the Championship?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘Right at the very beginning.
When I tried the new M1, I immediately saw that the bike had great potential and that we could win.
When I won the first race in Qatar, it proved to me I was right.
The Championship was long, but I could tell it would be easier than 2011, a really irregular season.
But there was a long way to go.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘Above all, because Dani Pedrosa had an impressive second half of the season, with 6 victories in the last 8 races.
Were you worried he could snatch the title away from you?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘Yes, there was always that fear of losing the title.
He was very close and really competitive.
He and Honda were in great shape and they had less to lose than us.
When I saw him fall in Philipp Island, I could breathe again because I knew I had won.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘You’re the only Spanish rider to hold two World Championship titles in the top class and after Angel Nieto, you’re the most successful Spanish rider ever.
What does this mean to you and what motivates you to carry on?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘I’ve achieved more than I ever thought was possible.
When I was about 10 or 12, if somebody had told me to “sign here” to reach a podium or to win a World Championship race, I would have signed it with my eyes shut.
Every day I think about how lucky I am, about the fact that I’ve got a wonderful job and that I have achieved so much.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘In your biography “My story so far” you speak about your passion for reading and the fact that one of your favourite books is Lance Armstrong’s biography, “an example of sportsmanship”.
After what has happened and his confessions to Oprah Winfrey, have you changed your opinion?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘I read his two books, and they inspired me to continue training and go on.
Reading them I found things that I could emulate.
Of course, what Armstrong has done, isn’t good at all.
But putting aside the negative part which is doping, I think that he has also done some positive things, for example creating the Livestrong foundation that supports people affected by cancer.
I don’t think it’s fair now to only speak about the negative things.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘In November Anthony West, Moto2 rider, was suspended for doping.
In the Spanish press at that time it was said that some riders sometimes use drugs to recover from an injury.’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘Yes it’s true, but we’re speaking about really isolated cases.
I don’t think Anthony took it to improve his efficiency, but because he wasn’t in good shape.
So he took this energy drink, which contained an illegal substance.
Generally, we don’t take anything to improve efficiency, cause it wouldn’t help you to win tenths of a second, you wouldn’t be faster.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘Recently you spoke about retiring like Stoner, who left motorcycling at only 27 years old.
Your contract with Yamaha expires at the end of 2014.
Are you really thinking about retiring then?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘I don’t think so, I think I’ll stay in MotoGP for a bit longer.
If I feel I can still get better and want to compete and ride a bike and if they still want me and make me a new offer, then I will carry on in MotoGP for a few more years.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘Your idol Max Biaggi went into Superbike after Moto GP.
Would you follow in his footsteps?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘It’s possible, you can’t rule anything out in life.
Superbike’s a really interesting championship, different from MotoGP, cause there you ride production motorcycles.
Of course, MotoGP is the most important category, where you have the best riders in the world, but Superbike is developing a lot and it’s really interesting.’‘
Euronews: ‘‘And what would you like to do when you definitely retire from motorcycling?
Do you have any projects?’‘
Jorge Lorenzo: ‘‘For the moment, no.
But one day, I’d like to create a “riding school”, to teach children everything I have learnt over the years.
Above all, I want them to ride safely, which is really important to me.
It’s impossible to get rid of all risks in motorcycling because it’s a risky sport.
But it’s really important to lessen the risk of injury and this is what I would like to teach them.
I would like them to be fast and safe.’‘
</text>
<text>
Independence campaigners in Spain are closely watching the referendum in Scotland.
Euronews spoke to Pedro Sánchez, the leader of Spain's centre-left Socialist Party (PSOE), which is now in opposition.
Marta Vivas, euronews: “ Pedro Sánchez, Secretary-General of the PSOE party, let’s begin by talking about your political career.
Why did you decide to become active in politics?
”
Pedro Sánchez, Spanish Socialist Party leader: “ Today in Spain and in many parts of Europe, there are many people who see the future as a threat.
And I want to transform that future of threats into a future of opportunities.
Two and a half years ago, I was outside politics, I was a university professor.
And my political commitment is to modernise Spain and Europe, with the creation of jobs and opportunities within Europe and with the need for the world to see a competitive Europe of opportunities, and also one that spreads peace in the rest of the world.
”
euronews: “ What kind of socialist are you, what do you propose?
”
Pedro Sánchez: “ I’m a reformer, a moderniser.
I think Spain must modernise its economy.
I believe Spain and Europe must make progress towards better transparency, citizen participation and democracy in our institutions.
We must struggle against corruption, which is the main poison of our democracy, and we need to create work.
Above all for those young people who don’t have any at the moment.
”
euronews: “ PODEMOS (The left-wing ‘We Can’ movement) won more than one million votes in the European elections.
It now has five MEPs in the European Parliament.
What do you think led all those people to vote for this political group?
”
Pedro Sánchez: “ I don’t know.
I believe that politics is about building, not destroying.
And I will always be on the side of all those who see politics as inspiring hope, which is optimistic, about the future.
We can’t turn the clock back 50 years … I think there are now people in Spain who earn 340 euros a month, who can’t make ends meet.
Little work is created and the work that is created is very precarious.
There is poverty in the workplace.
The important thing is to offer possibilities for work and for decent work.
”
euronews: “ In a recent interview you said that “ populism ends up like Venezuela under Chavez ” . ~~~ What did you mean by that?
How do you define populism?
”
Pedro Sánchez: “ With proposals such as those I’m making, to tackle a process of fiscal reform which makes the most well-off pay more tax and thus liberates the fiscal burden on the working and middle classes, this is a realistic and fair proposal from a social point of view.
To suggest that we nationalise all strategic sectors of the economy is simply impossible.
So, between a proposal that positions for social justice – but which also has its feet on the ground – and another which offers false solutions to real problems, I’ll take the first.
”
euronews: “ Your party supported austerity measures a few years ago, how do you think those measures helped people in the street?
”
Pedro Sánchez: “ There are different ways of doing politics in difficult situations, like those in Europe with austerity.
I think Europe should change its economic policy.
I’ve suggested a specific public investment plan for countries with an unemployment rate of above 15 percent.
I’ve suggested that the youth guarantee programme which is now limited to under 25-year-olds, is raised to 30 year-olds.
Why?
Because for example in Europe there are lots of young people between 25 and 30 years old who are unemployed.
So Spain, like the rest of Europe, should change its austerity policies for growth and job creation.
And for that, in our situation, in Europe’s case, you also have to count on the support of European institutions.
”
euronews: “ Let’s now talk about Scotland.
What do you think would be the impact of Scottish independence on the rest of Europe, in other regions?
”
Pedro Sánchez: “ In many cases, what’s important, what counts is to know how these feelings come about, these desires which show themselves in this vote.
Of course, if I place a bet on something, it’s for a united and strong Europe and a Scotland which is also united and strong in the European Union and in the United Kingdom.
”
euronews: “ But these sentiments of independence can have a certain influence on other regions … ”
Pedro Sánchez: “ You mean in Spain, and in the Catalan debate.
I think that in Catalonia what we need to do – and what I’ve said to both (Spanish prime minister) Rajoy and to (Catalan president) Mas – is to face up to a process of renewing the Constitution.
We’ve had 35 years of constitutional success.
But it’s true that we must renew that Constitution.
We must reorganise our territorial coexistence.
We must organise our authorities at each institutional level in Spain and in the European Union.
And we can only do all that with constitutional reform.
I want a Catalonia in the forefront of Spain, from the change in economic and social policy that we socialists want to champion.
I do not want a Catalonia outside Europe.
”
euronews: “ How can this constitutional reform, from what you’re talking about, give more autonomy to the regions and how can that benefit Spain?
”
Pedro Sánchez: “ Essentially, what we’re talking about is reorganising responsibilities.
Today, lots of people don’t know what the responsibility of each level of administration is.
What needs to be recognised in the Constitution – which now is not the case – is who is responsible for public health, who is responsible for education, who is responsible for policy on languages, how the model of autonomous financing is put together, which is not in the Constitution either – I believe that would clarify life for citizens a lot and above all, and it’s important, would make savings for the State.
Because in the end, it would be much more efficient.
We argue for federal models like those in Germany or the United States.
In Europe, we socialists say that Europe should be a federal Europe.
When we talk about more European Union, we talk about a federal union.
That’s also what we are standing up for in Spain.
”
euronews: “ Let’s end with Scotland. ~~~ What do you think should be the Spanish position if (an independent) Scotland asks to join the European Union?
”
Pedro Sánchez: “ If we are going to gamble on something, it’s for this strong, united union which we’re all in.
And I certainly believe that, regarding the Catalan question, we should argue in favour of understanding, coexistence and above all to recognise inside Spain, that Catalonia is a different nation, that merits being recognised.
And that Spain can’t be understood without Catalonia, and Catalonia can’t be understood without the rest of Spain.
It’s difficult when there are leaders who demand that their citizens choose between being Spanish and being Catalan.
I think that instead of causing division, right now in Spanish and Catalan politics we need lots of good judgement, lots of courage to confront the challenges we all face.
”
</text>
<text>
Iran’s foreign minister Ali Akbar Salehi has been speaking to euronews on the margins of a security conference in Munich.
James Franey, euronews:
“ Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi, thank you very much for being with us here on euronews. ~~~ Iran and Syria say they are going to respond to the reported Israeli air strike on a Syrian weapons base.
Is that true?
”
Ali Akbar Salehi:
“ Well, I have never heard of anyone saying that we will be responding, but what we have said is that what Israel has done is a serious issue.
This air strike, I would call it an intervention (aimed at) inflicting harm on another country and another people, is not allowed by international conventions and by UN conventions.
So what Israel has committed is against international rules and regulations and it may have serious consequences.
”
JF, euronews:
“ Such as?
”
Ali Akbar Salehi:
“ When I say serious consequences – Syria is in a very sensitive region and if this crisis spills over to other countries we will be facing a huge fire that will burn “ wet and dry ” , this is a saying in my own language.
“ Wet and dry ” (means) that everybody will be burnt by the spillover of the Syrian crisis to other neighbouring countries.
”
JF, euronews:
“ So how would that play out? ~~~ Who would be the actors that are making this burn?
”
Ali Akbar Salehi:
“ So with such actions that have been taken by the Zionist regime … ”
JF, euronews:
“ Which they deny, for the sense of fairness, they do deny that, that they carried out this air strike.
”
Ali Akbar Salehi:
“ They do deny it?
No, they have admitted that they have made an air strike … ”
JF, euronews:
“ That’s not what officials on the sidelines of the conference said to me.
”
Ali Akbar Salehi:
“ Well, we are basing our information on what we have received from the Syrian government. ~~~ ( … ) Even the UN has responded to this, the UN Secretary General.
If this has not happened, how is it that the UN Secretary General has taken a position in this regard?
”
JF, euronews:
“ So, looking at Syria, if there is the fall of Assad, as many people in the West hope and expect to happen, what do you think will happen?
”
Ali Akbar Salehi:
“ Certainly, that will lead to a vacuum, and if there is a vacuum in Syria, the integrity of Syria will be undermined and we will not be sure Syria will be kept as an integral country anymore.
It will even go as far as, probably, Central Asia. ~~~ Because the only way that could lead to the resolution of this issue is for the government and the opposition to sit down together and solve the problem within the Syrian community, within the Syrian people.
In other words we, call it a Syrian-Syrian resolution of the issue.
We should not expect that this issue be resolved through prescriptions, ready-made prescriptions written outside Syria then ( … ) imposed on the Syrian people.
That will not work.
”
JF, euronews:
“ US Vice President Joe Biden said earlier at this conference that the offer of direct negotiations with America remains open if Iran is serious about it. ~~~ Are you serious about it?
Would you welcome that?
”
Ali Akbar Salehi:
“ When it comes to negotiations on certain subjects, thematic negotiations I would call them, this time nuclear negotiations, there is no red line on this … ..
” ~~~ JF, euronews: ~~~ “ I was about to ask you what your red lines were. ~~~ ”
”
JF, euronews:
“ Is that what made you decide to continue with the enrichment programme?
Let’s imagine, I put myself in the Iranians’ position and, let’s say, for the sake of argument, that you are seeking the capacity for an atomic weapon. ~~~ You hear Obama’s nominee for secretary of defence, Chuck Hagel, talking about all the old expressions, “ every option is on the table ” , including the military option.
Perhaps Israel has a nuclear weapon. ~~~ You look at US action in the region and perhaps, based on this argument, that is why you would proceed down that path. ~~~ It is a question of survival.
”
Ali Akbar Salehi:
“ We have said it always, right from the beginning, that a nuclear weapon has no place in our defence doctrine, for a number of reasons.
One reason is because of our religious tenets and principles, our beliefs.
Also our leader has issued a fatwa, a religious decree, that would forbid anybody to go into nuclear weapons development in my country.
“ The other aspect, when we look at it from the pragmatic point of view, suppose Iran develops one or two, three or four rudimentary bombs, can it really compete with a country like the US in this regard?
Can it be on par with any other country that has been in this domain of developing nuclear weapons for decades?
Certainly, that will not be a deterrent for us because with our neighbours we have no problem.
”
JF, euronews:
“ Many so-called experts state very frequently in the Western media and elsewhere that Iranian foreign policy is to wipe Israel off the map.
So I am just looking for a very clear and unequivocal statement that is completely false.
”
Ali Akbar Salehi:
“ You see we do not recognise the state of Israel, but we have never ever spoken of obliterating people.
When we said, when I said when it comes to using weapons of mass destruction, we have completely denied ourselves this right.
”
JF, euronews:
“ Will you run for the presidency of Iran? ~~~ Is that a job that you want?
”
Ali Akbar Salehi:
“ No I am not fit for that job. ~~~ ” ~~~ JF, euronews:
Ali Akbar Salehi: ~~~ “ Well I don’t know if I will be phased out it depends on the president who comes. ~~~ He may keep me, he may not keep me. ~~~ ” ~~~ JF, euronews:
”
</text>
<text>
Danny Ayalon, the outgoing Deputy Foreign Minister of Israel, has been talking to euronews about the situation in Syria and Iran’s nuclear ambitions.
euronews: “ Thank you very much for your time.
Iran and Syria say they’re going to retaliate for your reported strike on a weapons centre in Syria.
How do you understand that?
”
Danny Ayalon: “ Well, I have no knowledge of what they are talking about, but I think the problem that we face in Syria is emanating a lot from support, the massive support that the brutal Assad regime gets from the Iranian Ayatollahs and also from their surrogates in Lebanon, the Hezbollah.
”
euronews: “ If Iran and Syria do strike back, what would be Israel’s response?
”
Danny Ayalon: “ Well, of course Israel has the right for self-defence, we have our obligation to defend our population.
Unfortunately, we do see that radicalisation in the region is rampant, and what has been coined as the so-called “ Arab spring ” unfortunately is becoming an “ Islamic winter ” .
And much of it is attributed to the Ayatollahs in Tehran.
”
euronews: “ On this question of the Iranian nuclear issue, your prime minister has openly talked about perhaps a pre-emptive strike.
Do you not think this is counter-productive? ~~~ That this will in fact push the Iranians closer to an atomic weapon?
”
Danny Ayalon: “ I don’t think the Iranians need any push.
What they have been doing for the last decade and a half is a very elaborate scheme of cheating, evasion and in a way defying the entire international community.
And they are relentless in trying to get a nuclear capability for them.
The nuclear capability is not just a means in itself, it’s only a way to become the hegemon in the Middle East and much beyond.
And here I would like to make a very specific point: there’s no fight between Israel and Iran, the fight is really between Iran and the entire international community.
”
euronews: “ Why did containment work for the Soviet Union and not for Iran?
”
Danny Ayalon: “ Simply because for Iran the nuclear capability is not a matter of survival, it’s not a matter of extracting economic means, and with all due respect to Iran they are not a superpower, although they would like to be.
I believe that the more analogous situation is with North Korea, but unlike North Korea, which may or may not have a nuclear bomb in the cellar, Iran has global ambitions.
‘So here we’re talking about a regime which is very much dedicated to promote its very extreme ideologies, and for them the nuclear is just the means to continue to undermine and disrupt.
Even without the nuclear capabilities the Iranians are threatening the entire region and beyond – whether to block the Strait of Hormuz, whether to disrupt any free flow of oil.
With nuclear capabilities not only can they control the oil flow, they can also dictate oil prices.
So I think is very categorical, imperative – not just on Israel’s behalf but on everyone’s behalf – not to have Iran nuclear, and I think that they should not underestimate the resolve, determination and capabilities of the international community.
”
euronews: “ Turning quickly to Syria: do you believe the eventual fall of Assad will be the beginning of the end of that conflict, or the end of the beginning, and that this could be a long drawn-out war as in Lebanon, for example?
”
Danny Ayalon: “ Very tragic situation in Syria, and on top of the humanitarian disaster in Syria we see the danger of complete disintegration, in Syria being on the verge of becoming a failed state.
”
euronews: “ Do you think the state can completely break up?
That Assad is the state in essence?
”
Danny Ayalon: “ In essence this is what we see; and also what we see is that the fallback for Assad is not quitting, is not leaving Syria but actually fortifying Alawite positions and creating Alawite enclaves which will continue to be supported by the Hezbollah and by Iran, and this does not bode very well for the future of this country, and also for the stability of the region.
”
euronews: “ So if the stability of the region is so crucial how should the international community react?
Because the current strategy just doesn’t appear to be working.
More than 60,000 people are dead over the past 2 years.
What does the international community need to do?
”
Danny Ayalon: “ Well, first of all reach a consensus, and unfortunately we could not get the international community to agree, and with the absence of any policy by the Security Council it is a complete paralysis.
And the result of course is an ever-escalating direction and process in Syria.
So I think the first thing we should have the P5 (five permanent members) of the Security Council agree on a certain policy, whether it’s a no-fly zone over Syria, or a way to put peace-keeping forces – what could’ve been achieved rather easily a year and a half or a year ago now is almost insurmountable.
”
euronews: “ So the strategy of “ wait-and-see ” has failed and we should have some sort of foreign intervention in Syria?
”
Danny Ayalon: “ It’s not for me to really say, and again, maybe the time has elapsed for any effective intervention.
I know that there is a growing debate, especially in Europe, whether to supply the opposition lethal equipment (i.e. ~~~ arms and munitions) on top of non-lethal.
And this is something we have to consider very carefully to make sure that any munitions or weapons will not fall into the wrong hands.
Unfortunately the opposition of course is not of one block, and we see also Syria becoming a magnet of jihadists and Islamist fanatics – the type that travel from flash-point to flash-point, whether from Chechnya or Afghanistan or Libya.
Many of them now concentrate in Syria making things much more complicated. ~~~ ”
”
</text>
<text>
Already known in front of the camera, the Italian actress Maria Grazia Cucinotta is also making her way in Hollywood as a film producer.
 ~~~ ‘Il Postino’ brought her to world attention in 1994, but she was also a Bond-girl in ‘The World Is Not Enough’. ~~~ 
Originally from Sicily, Maria Grazia Cucinotta now lives and works in Los Angeles.
As part of the euronews special coverage of the Italian election, we met her on a visit to Rome to find out how she thinks her country has evolved in recent years.
Eri Garuti, euronews: “ Maria Grazia Cucinotta, you are often seen as the incarnation of Italian beauty in the world.
When did you realise that you were identified with your country?
”
Maria Grazia Cucinotta: “ The first time I felt this responsibility was when I was at the Oscars for the film ‘Il Postino’.
For the first time I felt not only proud, but also happy to be Italian, because I realised that the world loves Italy, Italian women, everything that says Made in Italy; the culture, the poetry – and for the Americans, all that is summed up in my image.
”
euronews: “ Is there anything about Italy that bothers you?
”
Cucinotta: “ Italians don’t know how to promote themselves, so when I am abroad I hear bad things said about my country.
The last 15 or 16 years the newspapers have been full of it.
To get at one man, Berlusconi, they have targeted a whole country.
But it’s not the fault of all Italians, on the contrary.
There are those who get up early to work hard and make sacrifices to advance the image of Italy and the Made in Italy brand.
”
euronews: “ Let’s talk about the differences between Italy and the US as far as work and production is concerned – you’ve lived there for eight years and have produced films … .
”
Cucinotta: “ It’s quite different.
Those who make it to the top really are those who deserve it.
It’s wonderful, it’s everybody’s dream – to be paid for what you’re worth, for what you’ve done.
If that doesn’t happen it’s disappointing.
So Italy should become a much more meritocratic country, and learn how work together.
”
euronews: “ You were a model in the past – do you think fashion could be one way to kickstart the Italian economy?
”
Cucinotta: “ Fashion is our best ambassador.
We are known throughout the world for fashion and the Made in Italy label.
”
euronews: “ And what role could cinema play?
”
Cucinotta: “ Cinema played an important role in the past.
The Italian masters were a point of reference for everyone in cinema.
Unfortunately, our films are not distributed well.
In the past, our films went everywhere in the world, making our stars known.
“ I was lucky because my film, ‘Il Postino’, was released worldwide and made me well-known.
But the majority of our films, even the beautiful ones, don’t get enough exposure overseas.
That’s not only a shame for the actors but for Italian culture too.
When a film does the rounds it also promotes a territory, it attracts people, it boosts tourism, it makes Italian culture better known and appreciated.
euronews: “ You are married and the mother of a daughter, and you hold family life very dear.
In your view, is the family something traditional, or are you also in favour of marriage and adoption for same-sex couples?
”
Cucinotta: “ For 12 or 15 years I’ve supported all the organisations against homophobia.
I believe that if there is real love, then the freedom to choose must be given to all human beings.
So I’m in favour of gay couples, who love each other and who want to adopt a child to give it love.
”
euronews: “ Where does Italy stand on civil rights and discrimination?
Is it doing well, or is there still some way to go?
”
Cucinotta: “ There are still things to be done, obviously.
Prejudice often wins over intelligence.
We have to sweep away this fog in people’s heads and make them understand that everyone has the right to live as they want, as long as they don’t harm others.
When two adults decide to live together, they should have the right to do it and to love each other.
euronews: “ In 2005 you produced the film ‘The Invisible Children’, which tells the story of seven children suffering injustice and violence in different parts of the world.
Do you think that by defending the rights of children, you’re also defending our future?
”
Cucinotta: “ For me, defending children’s right is fundamental in life.
And it should be for everyone, because childhood is one of the most beautiful times of our lives.
Children must not endure problems, they should smile, dream and lay down the foundations of their lives.We shouldn’t protect them simply because they represent the future, but also because they are living beings and if those foundations are cracked that person will always have problems.
”
euronews: “ Finally, what’s your main wish for the future?
”
Cucinotta: I’d like a magic wand so I can change everything which isn’t right in this world.
And if we are all together, this magic wand might well appear … ”
euronews: “ Are you sure?
”
Cucinotta: “ I am certain of it, yes, above all if I look back.
When I go back to Sicily where I grew up – my mother still lives there – and I look through the window and see where I was and where I am now I feel I am the happiest person in the world.
And I never forget it.
Every day of my life when I wake I look around me and say, this isn’t a dream.
”
</text>
<text>
Georgia’s Prime Minister Bidzina Ivanishvili says he wants Georgia to normalise its relations with Russia.
He also expects Georgia to become a member of NATO in the near future.
Those were the two main points in Ivanishvili’s recent keynote speech at the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly (PACE) session in Strasbourg.
euronews: “ You have come to Strasbourg to attend the PACE session where delegates from Georgia and Russia planned to meet for the first time since the 2008 conflict.
Does this mean that relations are gradually improving?
Can we expect a ‘reset’ of relations in the near future? ~~~ ”
Bidzina Ivanishvili: “ I hope really that the situation will develop in this way and I am doing my utmost to improve relations with our big neighbour.
The current situation is in nobody’s interest.
Georgia has lost 20 percent of its territory and we will do everything to regain it.
At the same time, the current situation is not acceptable for Georgia or Russia.
And as I have said we will regain this territory but I would like to emphasize that everything will be done by peaceful means and negotiation.
Violence and force are not acceptable, so I reiterate that our goals will be achieved by peaceful methods and negotiations.
We hope that the international community will support and help us to achieve this.
euronews: “ Serbia and Kosovo have announced the normalisation of their relations and initialised an agreement in Brussels.
Maybe this example will inspire Tbilisi on the normalisation of relations with Abkhazia and South Ossetia?
” ~~~ Ivanishvili: “ This is a very good example.
It also reaffirms that the world is changing and the people who did not succeed in the past have now found a common language and have managed to somehow come to an agreement.
So we should do our best and settle relations with our brothers, the ~~~ Ossetians, Abkhazians and of course with Russians.
euronews: “ Recently an investigation of the conflict in 2008 was launched.
And Mikhail Saakashvili called it as the Russian scenario.
How would you characterise this investigation?
” ~~~ Ivanishvili: “ This is Saakashvili’s strategy.
He blames everything he doesn’t like on Russia.
And this has been his policy for nine years.
It was this policy that actually led us to deadlock.
And I think it is normal that the investigation has started.
euronews: “ You expect NATO to commit to making Georgia a member.
And your opponent Mikhail Saakashvili supports this.
However, you think it’s possible to maintain good relations with both NATO and Russia.
But Saakashvili does not agree.
Why do you think it’s possible?
” ~~~ Ivanishvili: “ We have quite a few good examples from European countries.
Some of them had strained relations with Russia. ~~~ But they chose the way of Western development and relations improved.
“ The best example is perhaps Slovakia.
They didn’t spoil their relationship with Russia and acceded to NATO.
And I think that this example is exaggerated by Saakashvili.
It is possible to have good relations with both Russia and NATO.
He was irritated by Russia.
euronews: “ Is it possible for Georgia to become a member of NATO, let’s say, in the next decade?
Ivanishvili: “ Ten years is too long.
I think that it can be accomplished much faster.
We also need to take into account the dynamics of the changing world.
The world is changing. ~~~ Everything is changing.
So in a year or two, Russia itself may change and it may have better relations with NATO.
euronews: “ Do you expect that Georgia will become a candidate for EU membership?
” ~~~ Ivanishvili: “ We would like the European perspective of Georgia to be noted before the Eastern Partnership summit in Vilnius in November.
Georgia is heading in this direction at a higher speed than before.
Although our opponents say that this isn’t the case, we can say that in the next two years we can have a close association with Europe. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Will Georgian athletes participate in the Winter Olympics in Sochi?
” ~~~ Ivanishvili: “ Certainly.
We’ve mentioned that our athletes will take part in the Olympic Games.
Sport and culture are the tools for improving the situation, for setting the scene, and specifically the Olympic Games.
Take, for example, ancient Greece where even wars were stopped during Olympic Games.
So sport and culture will help improve the situation.
And we’re even ahead of the situation when it comes to trade. ~~~ So it will help us in every way.
euronews: “ Oh sport – you are peace! ~~~ ”
Ivanishvili: “ Yes of course, oh sport – you are peace, yes! ~~~ ”
FYI: “ Oh, sport, you are peace!
</text>
<text>
UKIP, the eurosceptic party seeking Britain’s withdrawal from the EU, has entered the country’s political mainstream.
Polls say it could finish first in this month’s European elections.
Euronews correspondent James Franey met the party’s leader, Nigel Farage, on the campaign trail in a pub in Knutsford, northwest England.
He asked Farage about his tough stance on immigration – as well as UKIP’s controversial election posters — and why he had signed up for a second European Parliament pension if he wants to “ abolish EU spending ” .
James Franey, euronews: “ Nigel Farage, thank you very much for being here on euronews.
First of all, what kind of party is UKIP and who do they appeal to?
” ~~~ Nigel Farage MEP, UKIP leader: “ We’re a party of national democracy.
We believe that the United Kingdom should be an independent, self-governing, democratic nation, not part of a political union with its headquarters in Brussels that now makes 75 percent of the laws of this country, costs us a fortune and stops us making our own trade deals with the new and emerging economies of the world.
And that doesn’t mean we are anti-European.
We actually rather like Europe.
But we want the whole of Europe to be a Europe of states that trade together and cooperate together.
This supranational project, this attempt without the consent of the voters to build a United States of Europe will not work.
” ~~~ euronews: “ You also describe yourself as a libertarian party, free market.
How does this current campaign on immigration square with that?
” ~~~ Farage: “ Well even Milton Friedman – the high priest of free trade and free markets – even Milton Friedman said you cannot have the free movement of labour between rich and poor countries, especially with the existence of a social security system.
And that’s the point.
We are very much in favour of the free movement of goods, capital and services.
We don’t want that to be constrained just to the EU.
We would like to see Britain doing more of that globally.
Certainly the English-speaking countries of the world, the Commonwealth countries, would be very, very good places for us to make a start on that.
But we need to have a responsible management of the labour market.
And what we have done is that we’ve flooded the unskilled labour market and the semi-skilled market in Britain with migrant labour.
euronews: “ If you want to be completely ruthless about it, if I was the boss of a big business I would want to keep my wage bills low.
I mean, all these businesses that you say support your party, do you really think they would want to pay more simply to have a British worker on their books?
Farage: “ I think that there is no question that big money – the big multi-national industries have benefited from this.
The downside is that as a country, we have to educate their children, we have to provide accident and emergency facilities for them in our hospitals, and we finish up with a large number of our own people unemployed and being paid for by the state.
So overall, whilst the big boss may be a beneficiary, overall we are not benefiting from this.
euronews: “ But surely if you were a true, free-market libertarian, you would say that it is the invisible hand that should guide who comes into our country.
Farage: “ Well, there are some things that matter more than money.
Community, cohesion of community matter more, and actually it should be the job of a British government to put the interests of British people first.
And millions of British families have been seriously affect by the fact that we now have an open door to 485 million people from Europe.
” ~~~ euronews: “ How many is too many?
Because 209,000 EU migrants settled in the UK to the end of September last year.
How much would like to see that cut by?
Farage: “ Radically.
euronews: “ How much?
Farage: “ Radically: ”
uronews: “ Half?
Farage: “ No, no.
We would like it down to the low tens of thousands. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Thirty thousand to fifty thousand?
Farage: “ What we had from 1950 until Blair came to power.
We had net migration into Britain running at 30,000 to 50,000 a year.
We did that for 50 years, it was something that we were relatively comfortable with.
We’ve changed that to something that is now 200,000 to 250,000 people a year net, gross half a million people a year.
I don’t want to stop immigration but I want us to have control over the quantity and quality.
euronews: “ So what’s the number?
What’s the magic UKIP number?
Farage: “ Well, let’s work that out.
euronews: “ But there’s an election now.
Farage: “ The election is between us and three parties who deny there is free access to half a billion people; That’s the battle that we have got to win first.
At the moment there is no cap.
euronews: “ You have no number that you would put on it?
Farage: “ There is no cap at the moment that is worthy of its name.
We have no control over the numbers of people coming into Britain and my big concern is that the things in the Mediterranean eurozone are getting so bad is that we may see another huge migratory wave of people and there is nothing that we can do about it.
So let’s get back control first and then let’s have an Australian-style system, a points-based system, where we control not just the numbers that come but also the quality too.
euronews: “ I spoke to an official at the World Bank this morning and they are telling Australia that they need to open up their doors – there’s a real shortage of unskilled labour.
How can an official in an immigration ministry really dictate the terms of a free market?
Farage: “ Why on earth would you listen to the World Bank, or any other global organisation like that?
They generally get absolutely everything wrong.
euronews: “ They’ve been telling Australia this for eight years.
You have British students on their gap year picking fruit because Australians don’t want to do it.
Farage: “ What we’ve got in this country is we’ve got British people being discriminated against in the job market in their own country and that is an outrageous state of affairs; it has led to a bigger division in society across this country than I have seen in my lifetime.
And that is plain wrong.
euronews: “ Let’s talk about some of your posters that you’ve put out recently.
You could argue they are very similar to some other parties in Europe that are riding this anti-Establishment trend.
For example, Geert Wilders in the Netherlands, who wants to reach out to you and form a group in the European Parliament.
[The Front National’s] Marine Le Pen, as well.
How is what they are saying about people from North Africa and Turks, any different from what you’ve been saying about Romanians and Bulgarians?
Farage: “ Well, the nearest comparison that people in Britain have drawn is they’ve said out posters are a bit like the Conservative Party’s posters in the 2005 General Election.
Our posters are there to make people think.
Our posters are there to provoke a debate and that is happening.
euronews: “ Would you form an alliance with Le Pen and Wilders.
Farage: “ No.
”
euronews: “ Why not?
Farage: “ Because we feel that their politics, whether their leaderships reflect it or not, within those parties, the Front National certainly, there are still elements of the old anti-Semitic brigade and that’s of no interest to us.
euronews: “ But there are echoes there of what Wilders and Le Pen are saying to their electorates.
They are keen to protect working class voters from globalisation, from the negative impact of globalisation.
You just have to replace the word ‘Romanian’ or ‘Bulgarian’ with ‘Moroccan’, ‘Algerian’ or ‘Turk’.
It’s very similar, you would have to agree.
Farage: “ Well, we want to embrace globalisation.
We are not an anti-globalisation party.
Le Pen is against globalisation, we are not.
We want to embrace globalisation.
We cannot embrace globalisation as part of a European Union which is stopping us, prohibiting us, from reaching out and having trade deals and agreements with the other parts of the world.
Madness.
euronews: “ Just my final question: You want to cut back on EU spending.
Why have you got this secondary voluntary pension with the European Parliament?
Why did you sign up for that if you’re so keen on cutting back on EU spending?
Farage: “ So that when I’m dead that my family will get something.
euronews: “ But people who vote for you don’t have a second pension.
Farage: “ We don’t want to cut back on EU spending, you are quite wrong with that question.
We want to abolish EU spending.
euronews: “ Why have you got the second pension then?
Farage: “ I want the British contribution to go from £55 million a day to zero.
euronews: “ You could start by helping.
Farage: “ I think to be frank with you … ..
euronews: “ Why did you sign up?
Farage: “ I think to be frank with you, that is a pretty small petty irrelevance compared to this country paying over….. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ But you’ve been bashing the Eurocrats in Brussels for years.
Farage: “ Well, you could argue that I should work without a salary, but I can’t afford to do that.
euronews: “ No, no no.
A second … There were many MEPs who declined to take part because they thought it was immoral.
So why did you sign up for it?
Farage: “ Did they?
I didn’t meet many of them.
euronews: “ So why did you sign for the pension then?
If you disagree with this EU spending largesse. ~~~ ”
Farage: “ Because I have come into politics at a massive personal financial loss and as I say once I’m dead I think my family should get some long-term benefit out of it.
euronews: “ So it’s for Farage Junior to go and buy a nice flat in London?
Is that the idea of an EU pension?
Farage: “ It won’t pay for that.
euronews: “ Nigel Farage, thank you very much. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Egypt is preparing for its first presidential elections after more than 30 years under the rule of Hosni Mubarak following the change in the rules governing elections.
The military council of the Egyptian Army ensured the ballot for the president will be free and fair.
Dr Amr Moussa, former foreign secretary and former secretary general of the Arab League, is one of the leading candidates.
He spoke to euronews correspondent, Riad Muasses.
euronews: “ What is different in your platform from those of other candidates? ~~~ ”
Amr Moussa: “ My programme is different because it is global, it is a vision and a programme in one.
A programme that focuses on all Egypt’s problems, because there were failures in the treatment of Egyptian problems, government after government, with which I was not involved, did nothing.
“ I propose a short-term programme for the next four years and another to be put in place for the long term.
My programme will establish a new state, it will be the second republic, which will not be a continuation of the first republic, it will be totally different from the previous 60 years.
It will establish a democratic, constitutional presidential system that will change institutions, and the administration, independence of the judiciary and the separation of powers.
The reality is that my program provides a lot of answers to several questions.
It is not a single programme but a vision of Egypt for the country’s future. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Dr Moussa, I have found since following your campaign you are giving strong emphasis to agricultural workers, as is evident on this visit to the country.
Amr Moussa: “ Yes, these people have been marginalised and they have not benefited from any programme for the last 60 years.
” ~~~ Euronews: “ Dr.
Moussa the programme is ambitious will it work financially?
” ~~~ Amr Moussa: “ For the necessary capital for the coming years, say, the next five to ten years, we do expect economic growth in Egypt.
Production is accelerating, the doors are opening to investment and tourism is starting to pick up again.
‘So we should not consider the current financial situation when thinking about these programmes, we are talking about next year and that is why I am not concerned about any problems which may hinder our economic policy in the long or medium term.
” ~~~ Euronews: “ Many people accuse you of belonging to the former regime and that you worked with President Mubarak.
Is this not affecting your campaign? ~~~ ”
Amr Moussa: “ Yes but a lot the accusation is a personal one, it has nothing to do with my policies.
And those who people who accuse me, actually chose Issam Sharaf as Prime Minister and he was also part of the old regime.
‘So these allegations are irrelevant, but if the accusations are because I was foreign minister for ten years, yes I was and I am proud of those years.
I think Egypt as a whole hasn’t taken all that into consideration. ~~~ ”
Euronews: “ You are the favourite in the polls along with a candidate from the Muslim Brotherhood. ~~~ Do you believe them?
” ~~~ Amr Moussa: “ If it was just one poll, there could be a doubt but when you see ten successive polls from various internal and external sources all saying the same thing then there should be some truth in them.
” ~~~ Euronews: “ There has been some disquiet in Israel that you could become President.
Would your election cause problems in relationships between the two countries? ~~~ ”
Amr Moussa: “ No, they do not want someone who is aware of the Palestinian cause and the Arab-Israeli conflict.
They also do not want someone who knows how to say, “ no ” really says no and when he will say yes it will be on his own terms and not on conditions imposed by others.
‘In past relationships they didn’t see any of the problems in Egypt but that is all finished.
They hope that the President of Egypt will handle the situation more easily.
I know they are not concerned about conflict but they do fear someone who understands their games.
Euronews: “ You can understand that … .
” ~~~ Amr Moussa: “ As we say they do not want someone who can answer them. ~~~ ”
Amr Moussa: “ I firmly believe that Egypt should follow a rational policy in the region.
We want to rebuild our country, that is a priority but that does not mean we will abandon the Palestinians.
The Palestinian have a just cause, which has a close relationship with Egyptian national security and which can threaten the stability in the Middle East.
In any case, Egypt is part of the Arab peace initiative and a peaceful, political solution has been adopted with a level playing field and that is more or less our position.
Euronews: “ Will there be changes to the Camp David Treaty? ~~~ ”
Amr Moussa: “ No, the Camp David Treaty is finished, there is now an Egyptian – Israeli treaty that is in force and we will respect it. ~~~ ”
Euronews: “ If you become President, how will you deal with parliament, it is a parliament dominated by Islamist?
” ~~~ Amr Moussa: “ We will work with the parliament in the correct manner whether it is dominated by Islamists or not.
As president I have to work with the parliamentary majority.
I have my opinion and they have theirs, but it is necessary that we work together positively and I will not marginalise them.
As president I will have my views but I will always consult this majority. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
The leaders of Iran’s opposition Green movement — calling for political reform and evolution in society — have been under house arrest without trial for more than a thousand days: Mir Housein Mosavi, Mehdi Karoubi, and Zahra Rahnavard.
We spoke to Karoubi’s son Mohammad Taghi Karoubi, a law professor at the University of Westminster, in London.
Ali Kheradpir, euronews: “ Mr Karoubi, your father has been under house arrest since February 2011.
The Minister of Justice and the Mayor of Tehran both said last year that this case is in the hands of the National Security Council.
Recently, a member of parliament said that the Supreme Leader told him that if the leaders of the Green movement faced judgement in a court, because of their massive crime, the verdict would be tough.
Why is the Islamic Republic of Iran so reluctant to be transparent about this case? ~~~ ”
Mohammad Taghi Karoubi: “ Since the beginning, the regime’s behaviour toward the leaders of the protest movement has been unclear.
Part of that behaviour lay with unofficial, shadowy plainclothes forces under regime control.
According to international law, the state is in charge of what these groups do.
Their methods included attacking my father at home, setting fire to the door of the house and throwing a percussion grenade inside.
The regime had its trusted groups do these jobs — unofficially — while at the same time working to avoid any official confrontation between the state and Green movement leaders.
So far, no authority has taken responsibility for the house arrest of these leaders, within the framework of current laws.
However, some officials have said indirectly that this case is not under their control — such as the top commander of the police and the head of the judiciary.
Also, recently, the Supreme Leader clearly expressed that this specific case of house arrest is in his hands.
That was not news to us, but exposing this issue publicly has taken us to a new level.
euronews: “ Your father has insisted that he is ready to appear in any court to answer accusations made against him, but the Supreme Leader has said his crime is massive, even though he said the state has treated Mr Karoubi and two other political figures with kindness so far.
Do you think the Supreme Leader has made his decision without bothering with a trial?
Karoubi: “ The constitution applies the principle of the presumption of innocence, until a court passes a verdict on the accused.
My father has been aware of conditions in the country.
Since the beginning of his house arrest, he has declared several times that he is ready to be judged in an open, public trial — as provided for in article 168 of the constitution — his only condition being that he must be allowed to speak to the people.
The regime so far has refused to do this.
It has not followed judicial procedure.
The Supreme Leader said the Green movement leaders are guilty, and yet the crime must be presented in court.
Only then, if a guilty verdict is delivered, may punishment be determined.
Yet the Supreme Leader has already imposed punishment.
Even now, years later, he believes that the regime has been kind to them.
It all shows that the handling of the case has not been left up to the judiciary.
It shows the judiciary is not independent where the cases of these leaders are concerned.
This is because the leaders of the opposition movement have the power to influence the people of Iran. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Last year, following the presidential election which brought in a more moderate government, people went into the streets happily, and once again we heard the names of the leaders of the Green movement in people’s slogans.
What does the regime achieve by maintaining this house arrest?
Karoubi: “ After arresting the Green movement’s leaders, the regime tried to use propaganda, the national media and other facilities to make Iranians think negatively about them.
They made many allegations against them while giving them no window to defend themselves; student activists and political activists were in prison.
The huge historical mistake of the regime was to try to teach society to be negative about these leaders, through state media propaganda.
But the last election showed that this vision did not come about.
Today, not only has public sensitivity towards the Green movement leaders increased, but their popularity is growing constantly.
euronews: “ About your father’s house arrest conditions, he has moved from place to place.
First, he was held at his own home and then he was transferred to a safe house belonging to the intelligence services.
Today, he is back in his own home.
What purpose did all that serve?
It wasn’t done with Mr Mosavi and Ms Rahnavard.
Karoubi: “ My father was held at home, then after several months he was transferred to one of buildings of the intelligence ministry.
Our family think it was to put more pressure on him.
He held on for two and a half years in a small apartment, with the most basic facilities, and alone.
My mother was released from house arrest but he remained there.
As a result of being deprived of sunlight and fresh air, and staying alone, he got ill from asthma and rickets.
In the past seven or eight months alone, he has undergone four surgical operations.
The regime then understood that this kind of detention means his whole health is destroyed.
Eventually, they agreed to return him to his home.
His house arrest is continuing there.
euronews: “ When political figures are cut off from contact with society, food is a concern.
Who has been allowed to provide your father with food?
” ~~~ Karoubi: “ As I am speaking with you right now, providing his food is in family hands.
My mother is allowed to go shopping.
But when he was in the intelligence ministry safe house, they provided all foodstuffs.
Of course, the costs were handed on to the family.
They provided non-cooked foodstuff to my father.
For a short time they provided cooked food for him too, because he was alone. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Who is allowed to visit your father?
Karoubi: “ Currently, my brothers, their wives and their children are allowed to visit, once a week.
Each visit can be from an hour and a half to two hours.
One of my brothers, however, is banned, simply because he used to tell him the daily political news.
He has been forbidden to visit for more than 14 months.
euronews: “ Have you ever been in contact with international human rights defence organisations?
Karoubi: “ We tried to inform people about the conditions of my father and Mr Mosavi under house arrest, three and a half years ago.
Every human rights organisation’s duty is to expose any event publicly, wherever there is injustice in any part of the world.
But we ourselves have not been in contact with international organisations.
We have tried to make my father’s case global, and the international institutions should be expected to do their job, too. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Click on this link to watch Part Two
</text>
<text>
Tariq al-Hashimi, Sunni Vice-President of Iraq, is fighting for political survival after being accused of having links to terrorism, an allegation he strenuously denies.
He spoke to euronews about sectarianism, Iran and security worries in Iraq.
euronews: “ I want to start with the latest bombing attacks in Iraq.
The cities which were targeted are the most sensitive: Samara, Kirkuk and Baghdad, where sectarian violence is very high.
How do you see these latest incidents?
”
Tariq al-Hashimi: “ Well unfortunately, this is just new evidence that we do not have any qualified management for security.
The terrorists have in fact managed to target innocent people as well as the institution of the government from time to time.
 ~~~ “ This time, as you’re fully aware, it’s not only one particular community being targeted, it is mixed.
Apparently all Iraqis are now being targeted by terrorists.
It is quite normal because I kept criticising the way the chief in command ran security in Iraq and this could happen at anytime in the future.
The problem is that, regardless of the numbers of troops you have, regardless of the billions of dollars that have been dedicated since 2003, we don’t have qualified security forces that can match the actual security challenges that Iraq is facing. ~~~ 
“ How many times have we made an appeal to Prime Minister Nouri Maliki that you should be humble and give factual assessments to the Iraqi people and apologise for penetrations because people – innocent people, the Iraqi average citizen – are suffering, not the high ranking staff in the government, who are all protected by bodyguards.
But the problem is about the average citizen who is targeted from time to time.
Nobody cares about that.
”
euronews: “ Who do you think is launching these attacks?
”
Tariq al-Hashimi: “ The situation in Iraq is that the political process is fragile.
We are facing a lot of challenges.
Many parties are not convinced or sympathetic enough to keep to the work of getting Iraq stable.
We do have many, many, many sources of violence for the time being.
It is not only al Qaeda.
Even the corruption of the security forces could be a source of violence.
We do have real challenges and I am sorry to say that my country cannot sustain stability for years to come because we do have big challenges that we are unable to overcome for now.
”
euronews: “ These attacks look like they are trying to add more fuel to sectarian differences.
It appears to me that Iraq is moving into more sectarian politics.
Do you agree with that?
”
That is clear.
Targeting Tariq al-Hashimi unnecessarily in fact, with all these sort of allegations.
People understand that this is sectarian targeting and regardless of a political motivated case.
So we do have a challenge in this regard.
”
euronews: “ How dangerous do you think these ethnic and sectarian policies are?
Do you think at a point, Iraq will be divided among these three different groups?
”
Tariq al-Hashimi: “ I hope this is not going to happen because at the end of the day there would be not only my country suffering chaos – political chaos but I am sure the whole region would suffer as well.
Because Iraq, as you’re fully aware, is a rich country and any split in the geographical structure is going to attract neighbouring countries to interfere in our internal issues and there will be a big fight in the Middle East on Iraq as well.
So this formula does not serve the national interest of Iraq, or the stability of the whole region.
”
euronews: “ What about regional powers like Iran, Turkey, and some other countries – Saudi Arabia, we can also add to this, the United States – do they have an interest in keeping Iraq unified or do you think some powers are on the other side of the equation?
”
Tariq al-Hashimi: “ I could talk from my own experience and the dialogue I had just recently when I was visiting Saudi Arabia and Qatar and Turkey for instance.
Three countries which have influence and significant power in the Middle East.
They are very much concerned about the stability of Iraq and they are very willing for all Iraqi social components to come together and try to re-consolidate in their differences, to maintain and achieve sustainable unity in Iraq.
”
euronews: “ What about Iran I mean.. ~~~ ?
”
Tariq al-Hashimi: (interrupts) “ The problem is, Iran is pushing vigorously for sectarian strife.
I must be fair in my analysis.
If I compare the policy of Iran historically, this is not a new phenomenon.
Iran is behind sectarian strife in my country.
Otherwise the Iraqis would have no culture in sectarian philosophy or sectarian behaviour.
We used to live in Iraq and respect our roots without even asking our neighbours or friends – but today, no.
Unfortunately you have to ask, you have to identify.
So this culture came as a by-product from the Americans and it has been enhanced and promoted by Iran.
This is what has happened.
“ So the policy of Iran is quite different to Turkey.
As far as I am concerned, I am talking about my experience, I’m not exaggerating things, I am not an anti-Iranian politician but I have to address things on a factual bases and from my own experience.
”
</text>
<text>
James Franey euronews: “ Christine Lagarde, you’re the head of the IMF; You are here in Dublin, Ireland to talk about the lessons we can learn from the Irish bailout.
Is Ireland really a model when you consider the social cost of what happened?
Christine Lagarde, IMF Managing Director: “ If I look at the numbers, clearly the Irish recovery is quite extraordinary because when you look at growth … it is up and the highest in the eurozone.
if you look at unemployment..it is down by almost 3 percentage points.
If you look at debt; it is declining.
If you look at deficit, it has been halved almost.
So almost all those numbers are really solid and give the direction of a good recovery.
‘Now, there is still over 10 percent unemployment and there is still over 20 percent young people unemployed.
So we are not there yet.
Although Ireland is off to a good start, it still has work to do to continue that unemployment decline and that job creation.
Those will be the key tests to actual and full success of the Irish recovery.
Euronews: “ And there’s also three quarters of a million people living in poverty in Ireland, according to the government statistics.
When you hear these kinds of stories at how how these austerity cuts have affected people’s lives, what do you feel as the public face of the IMF?
There’s that terrible story of that 77-year-old pharmacist who shot himself dead in Athens because he didn’t want to leave debts for his children.
What do you feel when you hear these stories?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ Well, just like every other human being.
We feel terrible in the face of those tragedies and the misery that people feel.
But equally when we have to get into a territory when a country calls for help is that they have not been able to manage the situation.
They have run spending way ahead of what they could afford. ~~~ they are not controlling their public finances.
And the situation is very bad.
So we have to go in and help the country restoring economic condition, restoring access to financing and making sure that the economy is back into job creation and not job destruction.
”
Euronews: “ So the mantra is: keep calm and carry on cutting.
Couldn’t we have done anything differently apart from these harsh austerity measures?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ You know, I think in the case of Ireland there was clarity of purpose.
There was focus on financial and fiscal?
There was determination.
There was ownership by the authorities, as well as by many people in Ireland.
That they wanted to get out of the very deep financial crisis they were in.
There was also extraordinary human competence to try and carry it through and deliver the results and the performance and the jobs that are being created now.
”
Euronews: “ Let’s talk about Greece.
I know it’s a very sensitive subject.
There’s an election coming up …
Christine Lagarde: “ Which is the reason why I might not tell you very much about it..
”
Euronews: “ Well, let’s have a go anyway.
”
Christine Lagarde: “ We try to be respectful.
”
Euronews: “ I understand, but the leader of Syriza, Alexis Tspiras says he wants a huge debt write-off and what he’s going to be asking of the troika (the EU, the ECB and the IMF).
Do you think he’s going to get it?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ I think we need to wait until Friday.
See what the result of the election will be and then figure out what kind of coalition is put in place and then remind that country that it has made commitments to its European partners.
To its creditors.
And that’s of the structural reforms that were to be implemented to restore the situation of the Greek economy. ~~~ ”
‘Only very few out of what was committed has been delivered and more work needs to be done. ~~~ Not for us.
Not for the European partners, not for the European Parliament as Mr Schulz as indicated but for the Greek people themselves.
”
Euronews: “ And for some northern European banks as well.
”
Christine Lagarde: “ In terms of tax collection, for instance, hardly any of the benchmarks have been respected.
When i said that all Greek people – including the wealthy ones – had to pay the tax, that’s what I meant.
Tax collection is an objective that needs to be delivered upon.
”
Euronews: “ Is Greece’s debt sustainable?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ We’ll see about that when we continue the review work and the negotiations with the authorities, as soon as the election is over and as soon as the coalition is in place if it takes a coalition.
”
Euronews: “ You have no contingency plan?
Christine Lagarde: “ If I did, I wouldn’t tell you anyway.
Thanks for trying, but no.
”
Euronews: “ So what’s at stake … ?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ By the way, the IMF is a contingency plan almost every day when we are called upon helping any of our members in the membership.
”
Euronews: “ What’s at stake in this Greek election?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ You know, it is like any election.
It is for the people to decide democratically what they want, what they expect and what’s the future for the … .
”
Euronews: “ The membership of the Eurozone for Greece?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ This is not for me to decide.
It’s a matter for the euro partners and for Greece to discuss, but I have heard many comments made and I am sure you have too.
”
Euronews: “ What would be the consequences of a Greek exit of the eurozone?
I mean, what would be the impact on the Greek economy if that did happen?
I know it’s a hypothetical question, but I am just interested from your vantage point as the head of the IMF … ..
”
Christine Lagarde: “ From a very very hypothetical question of a member exiting the eurozone, which to my knowledge is not allowed under the eurozone articles of partnership if you will, that would be a massive financial cost as a result.
”
Euronews: “ Let’s just move on to the world economy.
What do you see as the main challenges for 2015?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ Growth and jobs and that’s not vastly different from what it was in 2014, except that we are concerned about the growth potential of many of the advanced economies, the United States excluded.
The United States is clearly having a recovery.
It is getting deeper stronger, but we are not seeing that in either the eurozone or in Japan for instance.
We are seeing it in the UK, but not in … . ~~~ ”
Euronews: “ And why not in the eurozone?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ You know the combination of the relatively gradual and slow recapitalization over time; the fact that there is very, very low inflation going forward is clearly having an effect on growth potential and therefore on the level of confidence and you are into that sort of dangerous loop that needs to be exited from in order to restore confidence, in order to kick-start investment again and in order to restore the growth.
”
Euronews: “ Just one final question if I may. ~~~ If I may turn to your personal career.
I know like all good politicians and public officials, you are focused on the job in hand, but Mr Sarkozy. ~~~ ”
Christine Lagarde: “ Yes, you got the answer!
”
Euronews: “ But Mr Sarkozy is now back in French politics.
Somebody you were very close to when you served in the French government.
Obviously, he is now head of the opposition UMP.
If Mr Sarkozy picked up the phone and asked you to rejoin him in the French political scene, what would you say to him?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ I’m not going to comment on French politics because … ”
Euronews: “ You have no plans at all?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ Because this is not my task, this is not my mission, this is not my interest.
”
Euronews: “ You have no plans to return to French politics?
”
Christine Lagarde: “ I told you, I would not respond.
”
</text>
<text>
The new president of the Central African Republic, Catherine Samba Panza, who was elected on the 20th January, has made her first official visit to Congo-Brazzaville.
 ~~~ The country has played a leading role as mediator during the Central African Republic crisis, which has seen widespread violence between Muslim and Christian communities and nearly one million internally displaced people.
François Chignac of Euronews met the new interim president and asked her about her vision for the future of this troubled African state.
François Chignac: “ Welcome to Euronews, President Samba Panza.
Thank you for agreeing to talk to us as your country goes through one of the most serious crises the African continent has seen in recent years.
The International Criminal Court has launched an inquiry into war crimes in the Central African Republic.
Will you be cooperating with the ICC inquiry?
”
Central African Republic President Catherine Samba Panza: “ The ICC prosecutor has informed me about this inquiry and asked for the government’s cooperation, which we are giving.
”
euronews: “ And if by some chance they want to interview the military, will you still support the inquiry?
”
Samba Panza: “ Justice will take its course.
The executive will not interfere with the judiciary.
”
euronews: “ And if important political leaders are arrested?
”
Samba Panza: “ Everyone must answer for their actions.
That’s that.
Some people have committed reprehensible acts. ~~~ They will answer for those acts.
I will not protect bandits or crooked politicians or agitators who have led this country into the current situation.
I will not protect anyone.
Everyone will answer to the International Criminal Court.
”
euronews: “ Do you need more troops? ~~~ Troops from France, the EU, the African Union, or the United Nations?
”
Samba Panza: “ Absolutely.
We need more troops.
That’s why I have called for a peace-keeping operation.
I think we must be realistic, we don’t have enough troops to be in every troubled zone where there is real insecurity.
So we really do need more troops.
We will have European troops at the airport.
That will free up more French army troops.
But even with freeing them up, the European troops will only be deployed in certain areas.
Experience has shown us that when African or French troops withdrew from a sensitive zone there were abuses.
So we need more troops all over the territory.
”
euronews: “ How long do you think it will take to restore security to Bangui?
”
Samba Panza: “ I’d say a month.
”
euronews: “ Your priority right now, is it to disarm all the militia groups?
”
Samba Panza: “ There are so many weapons throughout the country that its an operation that will have to be done progressively.
But we are determined to disarm the militias.
”
euronews: “ Why is there such violence between Christians and Muslims, these scenes of looting, lynching and murder that we have seen between two communities which used to live side by side in peace.
”
Samba Panza: “ The main cause is poverty.
There is widespread deep poverty. ~~~ Young people, unemployed people are easily manipulated.
So I believe that politicians played on those sensibilities for their own ends.
Sadly now it has taken root among Muslims and Christians, it’s a reality.
”
euronews: “ Do you think the country needs to undergo a national reconciliation process?
”
Samba Panza: “ Yes, we need a reconciliation process.
National reconciliation will be a process that comes step by step.
I want to see it start with dialogue between communities, so that people in this country learn to live together again.
The day we see national dialogue will really be the conclusion of all the processes that we are putting in place.
There’s no point in setting up massive group therapy if at the base people don’t get along and can’t live together.
”
euronews: “ How would you answer pessimists who say the country is heading for an inevitable split?
”
Samba Panza: “ I won’t cede one inch of my country.
Really, I completely condemn all secessionist tendencies in the country.
And I warn people who want to see this split, that I will stand in their way.
”
euronews: “ The international community has welcomed your election, as have neighbouring States and the African Union.
So how do you intend to get the country out of the terrible crisis in which it is embroiled?
”
Samba Panza: “ The problems are real.
The challenges are immense.
The expectations of the people are huge.
There are many needs to satisfy.
I can’t do it all in a fortnight.
But having said that, I recognise the challenges ahead, I understand the hopes which have been placed in me and I know that I have to get results.
”
euronews: “ You are the third woman to be elected as an African Head of State.
But you are the Head of State of a country which is torn apart and soaked in violence.
It is a help or a hindrance to be a woman in this situation?
”
Samba Panza: “ I’m proud to say that it’s a help.
My femininity and maternal feelings means I can tackle certain problems with lots of realism and sensitivity.
I know there are many difficulties ahead of me, but I truly believe that we will succeed.
”
</text>
<text>
You might think 20 years after the demise of the Soviet Union the then-leader, Mikhail Gorbachev, would surely be relegated to the cast of political “ has beens ” .
But even without an active political role, he remains a firm fixture of Russian social life.
Increasingly critical of Putin’s ruling style he has often advised him to step down.
 ~~~ euronews’ Moscow correspondent Alexandre Shashkov met him to talk about the latest elections, and recent and yet-to-come social changes.
Alexandre Shashkov: ~~~ “ The presidential elections are behind us, and now it’s clear that in 2 months Dmitry Medvedev and Vladimir Putin will switch places.
What do you think of the electoral campaign and the results of these elections?
”
Mikhail Gorbachev: ~~~ “ What’s different in these elections from the previous ones, is that during the electoral campaign it became clear that society is emerging from a kind of vegetative state.
People are starting to influence the agndas of the Prime Minister, future President, and Duma as well.
The questions of serious change of the system, its democratization, and general reforms to make the electoral system better, remain high on the agenda.
Because before, and this often angered me, the system got reformed in a way that only made it worse.
It rejected the person, and pushed them out of the electoral process.
Now it has to be vice versa, the system must be inclusive, and President Medvedev, in his last days in office, proposed a Constitutional Assembly, to correct the current system taking into account recent protests and the demands of the electorate who asked for a better system.
I hope this doesn’t just stay a proposition and is followed by results.
”
Alexandre Shashkov: ~~~ “ Do you think Medvedev will succeed, that he will have enough time for these changes?
”
Mikhail Gorbachev: ~~~ “ I think not, because we lack any experience in these sorts of changes.
We know the Constitution as it is – but how to change it, in what way?..
Well, in what way already becomes clear. ~~~ 
For example we have to bring back the elected regional governors, scrapped by Putin.
If the governors are not appointed by the Kremlin, but elected by the people, they won’t leave the authorities be. ~~~ They will be pushing their point of view.
Yes, it will be harder to deal with them, they will become more sure of themselves, will acquire political independence – but, frankly, that’s what we need.
People trust us, elect us, but we don’t trust people back to have a say in how to run a country.
If people ask for more say, then it’s mature enough to act.
And that’s positive change.
”
Alexandre Shashkov: ~~~ “ Do you think Putin as the new president will continue Medvedev’s drive for democratization, to reform the country’s political system?
”
Mikhail Gorbachev: ~~~ “ The president-elect – I think we can already call him that – has himself said many times that the issues of electoral process, electoral legislation and, generally, political processes will occupy a large part of his agenda.
Well, this is what he states, even if from time to time he says, “ Let’s before that do this or that in the economy … ” .
No, nothing should come before.
And the scale of changes that were announced by the president – if this is not just for show, if we are to take him seriously – is such that it will require an enormous effort from the executive and legislative power, from the whole of society.
And, frankly, even if Putin didn’t want to tackle these issues, and wanted to go back to the old ways, he can’t anymore.
Moreover, I think soon enough the question of early parliamentary elections will arise because we know in what condition the current one was elected.
For us to have an active and effective parliament, we’ve got to have a new parliament.
”
Alexandre Shashkov: ~~~ “ Let’s look back a bit.
Medvedev is at the end of his mandate.
What can you say about his 4 years in power?
”
Mikhail Gorbachev: ~~~ “ Well, generally speaking, I consider Medvedev as a man with perspective and a future role, but he lacked experience and the time to accumulate it.
Once he said to me, “ Well, I have years ahead of me ” .
Well, it means he wants to continue with his drive.
If this is the case, good for him.
But he could have been more useful, and should have acted more decisively, which would have put him in a more prominent position than the one he is in now.
He’s nobody to blame for that but himslef, and I hope he learns from that.
”
Alexandre Shashkov: ~~~ “ Amongst the presidential candidates, who do you prefer?
”
Mikhail Gorbachev: ~~~ “ Prokhorov – maybe because we’re fed up with all the others.
He has fresh ideas, new ways to present his vision—- and a huge experience in business.
From this point of view, he’s part of a new generation, and that’s what interests me.
But I think he, as we all, has a lot to learn yet, and, more importantly, in reforming our electoral system, we must allow some new faces to emerge.
For that we need competition and openness and these are the most important issues now.
”
</text>
<text>
With Cyprus deep in a bank-triggered recession, we asked the head of state for his views.
Even with a bailout, Cyprus’s GDP is predicted to shrink by more than eight percent this year, as the EU keeps close watch.
Efthymia Koutsokosta, euronews: “ Almost two months after the euro zone finance ministers’ decision to bail out the Cypriot economy, we welcome the President of the Republic of Cyprus, Nicos Anastasiades.
“ Has Cyprus been a ‘lab rat’ for the EU?
President of the Republic of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades: “ The terms were such that we really feel we were used as a test model.
It seems that this encouraged many EU officials and many governments to see this as a good solution for the future, unless we reach something better through a banking union.
euronews: “ The International Monetary Fund, in its annual report, sketches out what is coming for the Cypriot economy.
It says that from 2015 to 2018 additional disciplinary measures will be applied, which are equivalent to 4.7 percent of the annual income of Cyprus.
What’s your plan so that people can have some hope? ~~~ ”
Anastasiades: “ There are many things that our friends in the IMF don’t take into account.
For example, during the discussions which were aimed at avoiding the bailout, even in the banking resolution, they did not take natural resources into consideration.
I believe that the keys to disproving the IMF’s bad forecasts will lie in the cooperation over natural gas that we are pursuing with Israel, the strengthening of relations and co-exploitation in some sectors.
” ~~~ euronews: “ European leaders and the IMF were saying for months that a country the size of Cyprus can’t have a banking sector which is eight times the size of its GDP.
Cyprus’s economy was largely based on its banking sector.
Given the Eurogroup’s decision, do you think that the danger of a national default has been completely overcome?
” ~~~ Anastasiades: “ The problem was bad management by the bankers.
The banking sector in relation to GDP was not many times larger.
Luxembourg’s banking sector is the biggest part of the state’s economy.
That was not the problem.
Unfortunately, sometimes we get big-headed and we mismanage our capacity.
A very healthy banking system was led to the edge of collapse, endangering us with default on our national commitments.
“ Of course, there were also mistakes made in providing liquidity for one of the two banks.
The Popular Bank which went bankrupt and merged with the Bank of Cyprus absorbed 9.5 billion euros of European Central Bank Emergency Liquidity Assistance.
That is how much the state of Cyprus needs.
If you take this into account, you realise there are grounds for blame.
” ~~~ euronews: “ You have just referred to the management of the banking sector and to the bankers; what is happening in your dispute with the Central Bank of Cyprus? ~~~ ”
Anastasiades: “ What is important now is to work together and not in confrontation – not to think that the European system of independent central banks opposes mutual respect.
The system is indisputable and we totally respect it.
However, the actions of central bank governors affect the policies of elected governments.
Therefore, there should be mutual respect between an elected leadership and an independent appointed official.
This independent official should respect the government’s decisions.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Let’s look at another unresolved matter of importance for Cyprus: reunification.
Recently, there have been some diplomatic and political moves from all the sides involved: from Turkey, the EU and even NATO.
These have moved the subject back up the agenda, to discuss a new solution.
What exactly does it say?
Do you accept its findings? ~~~ ”
Anastasiades: “ This ‘famous’ document was made public at my request.
I have to say that it is nothing but a description of what was done from 2008 until 2012.
It covers so-called ‘convergence and divergence’.
But it is not in any way a basis on which we are going to pursue the negotiations, nor we are bound by any convergence which was successfully accomplished in the past. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Are you saying that when the negotiations start up again you are not going to begin from the point where you left them? ~~~ ”
Anastasiades: “ That is correct.
But that doesn’t mean we will delete the points on which we agree – which do give us a foundation.
The foundation is a bi-communal, two-zone federation with political equality.
Of course, that doesn’t mean there is either numerical or quantitative equality when we look at participation in the exploitation and development of the sources of income.
euronews: “ But the Secretary-general of NATO has said that drilling will begin only after Cyprus’s division is resolved. ~~~ What do you say to that?
Anastasiades: “ Nobody can define our sovereign rights and connect them to our national solution.
We do want a solution.
We want liberation, we want reunification with peaceful co-existence.
We seek prosperity for everyone.
But you cannot achieve that through the pressure of blackmail.
I don’t speak for NATO’s Anders Fogh Rasmussen, but if you want to get the benefits of exploiting natural gas resources, you shouldn’t have to agree to an unacceptable solution.
euronews: “ You have mentioned Israel.
What exactly came out of your visit there?
Can we speak about new economic cooperative relations, or a new diplomatic friendship? ~~~ ”
Anastasiades: “ Cyprus has already decided to create a facility to liquefy gas.
This is very important; it could help Israel, allowing it to export through this facility, rather than through the Suez Canal, in another direction.
The route to Europe is open, and the Exclusive Economic Zones of Cyprus and Israel are so close in distance.
This also could help the strategic alliance that we seek.
euronews: “ To conclude, what would you tell the people of Cyprus?
We all know they are suffering and expecting hard times ahead.
Anastasiades: “ I trust the Cypriots; they are very well educated.
In Cyprus we may combine high education indicators and the strength of will.
The strong entrepreneurial ability of the Cypriot makes me confident and optimistic that Cyprus’s problems will be solved soon. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Yvan Bourgnon set himself the challenge of sailing around the world on a 6.5 metre boat without on-board accommodation.
 ~~~ The Swiss skipper, former winner of the Transat Jacques Vabre with his brother Laurent, set sail from Sables d’Olonne in October 2013 with the objective of crossing the Atlantic and then the Pacific.
His boat suffered damage in Sri Lanka but he repaired “ Lulu ” in time to continue his adventure.
He spoke to euronews about his journey.
euronews: You are well known for your achievements and your transatlantic expeditions.
You have decided this time to abandon your maxi-trimaran to sail around the world “ old style ” on a small catamaran without modern equipment.
What made you embark on this round-the-globe trip the ‘old fashioned’ way?
Yvan Bourgnon: ‘‘Actually, I was very lucky to be able to sail with my parents when I was little and it was pure sailing – marine navigation – like (Eric) Tabarly or (Bernard) Moitessier. ~~~ 
‘‘It is true that having learned navigation like this, I wanted to go back to the basics of sailing; sailing without electronics, forecast assistance, or any kind of outside aid.
And above all not to have my head in a computer in order to be closer to the elements and the sea.
When there is a storm, on the contrary, the goal is to manage it, to fully tackle it and find solutions rather than take refuge inside the cabin.’‘
euronews: How do you navigate, because you do not have a GPS for example?
YB: ‘‘My parents taught me to use a sextant when I was little and I’m fascinated by astronomy, stars.
So I had so much fun sailing round the world because the sky, as you know, changed as my journey progressed.
I had fun in finding the stars that I knew as a kid and relearning the constellations.
It’s such a pleasure to successfully position oneself to within almost a kilometer just by calculating the angle between the sun and the horizon, between the sun and the stars; it’s absolutely amazing.’‘
euronews: Is it a problem not to have any kind of communication with the outside world?
YB: ‘‘Yes, especially not having meteorological assistance because nowadays even in the Vendée Globe, they get very specific information on the boat and they manage to negotiate depressions, storms, painful moments, while I, on the contrary, I head directly into the storm without realizing it because I did not have this source of information.
So it’s relearning navigation where you make do with what you have and hope God is on your side that day.
euronews: What is it like when you do find yourself in the middle of a storm with this kind of boat?
YB: ‘‘I have sailed through more than five storms on this trip with winds of more than 100km/h.
You can’t really imagine it but suddenly the waves are larger than the boat.
You no longer have your sails set, no sails at all but you have to control the boat in the waves.
The boat can sometimes travel at speeds of 50 km/h without sails that’s how light it is.
It really flies with the wind.
Sometimes I was forced to slow the boat down with a storm drogue.
It’s a technique I have learned over the years.
 ~~~ ‘‘I still capsized twice.
So I had to learn how to flip the boat back over by myself which was not a simple matter because the vessel is still 600 kilos and for a little guy like me, even though I’m strong, it takes two to three hours.
The second time I capsized at night, I found myself underwater with the mast all over the place.
You have to haul down the sails, you must climb to the top of the hull in order to let go of the mast rotation, tilting the mast, and it’s pretty risky, very dangerous.
euronews: You ran aground in Sri Lanka on August 1.
Tell us what happened?
YB: ‘‘Well actually, it’s was towards the end of the journey that was the most difficult for me, namely the crossing of the Indian Ocean, my last ocean.
First, I endured two monsoons in quick succession.
Monsoons are winds of over 100 km/h with heavy rains that last more than 12 hours.
‘‘I suffered two in the space of three days.
I came out of that a little worse for wear and of course there were headwinds, the boat bangs about a bit.
It lasted eight days without any respite, and then finally the last 4 days was very, very demanding and impossible to get some sleep.
I did not sleep for four days non-stop and I then I was so relieved to reach the coast.
At which point I said to myself I can finally breathe, unless I was hallucinating.
‘‘I saw a team-mate and cargo ships everywhere.
I had no idea of the time, distance or anything, it was crazy.
And just before arriving, by miracle the wind calmed down, so I told myself that it was opportunity to get some sleep.
I told myself that I can now rest up and recover and return to port in good shape.
‘‘But when I fell asleep, the autopilot was not working properly.
I woke up with the boat surfing a wave, by then it was too late.
The boat was rolling in a 4 or 5 metre tall wave, so it was quite brutal.
euronews: How did you get through it all?
YB: ‘‘I was very lucky.
When I was ejected from the boat, I was sucked to the bottom and came out underneath the trampoline.
I almost drowned during this moment.
Then I climbed back on the boat by hanging on, and that’s what ultimately saved me.
“ My louloute ” protected me when she hit the rocks, she was like a buffer even though I was knocked around a bit.
Today, I still have a herniated disc. ~~~ 
‘‘And then little by little, the boat ran aground on the rocks after which I was able to pull the boat off by jumping on the rocks, but I was incredibly lucky. ~~~ 
‘‘If I had not got back on the boat, I would have hit my head directly on the rocks, and it would have been fatal.’‘
euronews: Suddenly your world tour has been interrupted.
Are you looking to repair your boat?
YB: ‘‘We recovered certain pieces, the wings on which I laid down on are intact and we were able to recover them.
There are plenty of intact pieces that still exist so we will be able to give this boat a second life and hopefully re-start the journey at the end of the year.’‘
euronews: So if you leave at the end of the year, you will have to cross the Golf of Aden which is littered with Somali pirates and where no sailors really venture anymore.
Is this not pure madness?
YB: ‘‘Yes and no.
I think the pirates are a little more discouraged nowadays because in the past 6 or 7 years there has been a decrease in maritime traffic.
They no longer have much to steal because everyone has deserted the area.
So I think there are a lot less attacks and I do not have much to take on my boat.
There are no electronics, there’s no alcohol, there is nothing to take.’‘
euronews: You are four-fifths of the way there.
Your worst memory, I guess, is running aground in Sri Lanka.
But what is your best memory?
YB: ‘‘The best memories are often memories where there’s nothing to tell.
However when I crossed the Pacific, I set sail from the Galapagos and the first day, I woke up next to a sea lion that had climbed into the boat without me noticing.
I followed that up with a fantastic crossing of the Pacific, carefree, with a moderate wind.
I really had fun there.
I was never really stressed, there was never any serious damage.
‘‘I crossed the Atlantic in 20 days without anything really terrible happening.
This is another reason why I attempted this world tour.
There is 10% of great difficulties but 90% of happiness.’‘
</text>
<text>
After the Jasmine revolution in Tunisia just what has been accomplished in the political, economic and social spheres by the Ennaahda party.
The winners of the country’s first post revolution democratic election.
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ Mr Rashed Ghannoushi leader of the Ennahdha party, welcome to euronews.
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ Hello.
” ~~~ Adell Dellal, euronews: “ Ennahdha’s current policies are considered by many in Tunisia and abroad to threaten secularism, which is feature of Tunisian politics.
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ Tunisia is not a secular country, the language in Tunisia is Arabic and the religion is Islam, we provide guarantees for all Tunisians, whether secular or Islamic, we believe the state is based on the principle of citizenship.
People, despite their differences and attitudes, men and women should enjoy equal rights in Tunisia.
All are equal before the law regardless of their beliefs. ~~~ ”
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ The University of Mannouba was rocked by a recent incident , described as “ odd ” by some, when a student dressed in a full veil Burqa was denied entrance to the university to sit an exam, this led to protests by the Salafists.
How do think both sides behaved?
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ It could have been avoided, if both sides had been more flexible.
It is normal the university is concerned with security.
Every institution has to deal with unknown identities, it is necessary to verify the identify of students.
It’s necessary to check.
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ Many are waiting for the truth to come out about the excesses of the army and police to quell the revolution, when do you think the authorities will publish the results of their investigation?
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ That is for the courts they are currently reviewing the report and it all takes time.
It is necessary to conclude the investigation quickly.
A year has gone by and still no results.
The courts have ruled on some cases of theft and embezzlement, but injuries and death are still down the line, it is slow, but all the cases are before the courts and we hope to resolve the matter as soon as possible, in a legal and fair way.
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ Tunisia is in an economic downturn with low growth, tourism is sluggish, which is the backbone of the economy and unemployment is at around 800,000.
What are your plans to deal with this. ~~~ ”
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ There is no magic solution, we can not say today we have a solution for unemployment and a growth rate from zero to eight per cent as we would wish.
This requires all Tunisians, the government the opposition, all classes and people must work together to rectify the situation, back the government and its institutions and find national and foreign capital, there are many promises and many investment opportunities in Tunisia.
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ Speaking of investments who are your foreign backers? ~~~ ”
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ There are many.
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ Who?
” ~~~ Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ The whole world welcomed the revolution, everyone is welcome. ~~~ ”
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ Do you have any names, countries, organisations?
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ The world welcomed revolution in Tunisia.
Europe is our first partner and we are committed to this relationship we want to develop this partnership.
Tunisia is now a place of pilgrimage. ~~~ The foreign ministers of France, Italy and Germany have all visited. ~~~ ”
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ And the European Union?
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ We encourage the European Union.
Adell Dellal, euronews: ” What have the EU promised ?
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: ” They promised investment, loans, aid and an increased partnership with Tunisia.
The US wants to invest in Tunisia, promoting tourism and the Gulf states, which are the main investors in Tunisia, the neighbouring Maghreb countries, Algeria, Libya, Morocco and the Arab world.
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ The AKP the Islamic party in Turkey has proven it’s worth politically … .
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ Politically and economically.
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ And economically of course, but what of the other Islamic experiences , like Algeria in the early nineties, What about Somalia which model do Ennahdha intend to follow.
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ The AKP is the party closest to us and the similarity between the Turkish and Tunisian situation is the same, even in the context of the historical development in both countries along with the proximity to the West and their recent historical experiences.
All these factors are similar and our ties with the AKP are deep, we are moderate Islamic parties and we use the AKP as a model, we can benefit from Turkey’s economic success and in terms of human rights and democracy, though each country is unique with its own circumstances.
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ The AKP is considered secular with Islamic roots.
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ I said each country has it’s own circumstances.
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ Many journalists are outraged following the controversial new appointments in the media.
By such decisions Ennahdha are seen as trying to contain the media, which would undermine the freedom of expression and a free press.
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ The government must exercise it’s powers, they did that with the recent appointments of who those who oversee the media.
” ~~~ Adell Dellal, euronews: “ You have been critical of the Tunisian media.
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ Not all Tunisian media.
We did not criticise the media who act correctly only those which are unprofessional.
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ Is Ennahdha in charge of Tunisia?
Rashed Al Ghannouchi: “ Tunisia governed by a national coalition led by Ennahdha.
Adell Dellal, euronews: “ Thank you Mr Ghannouchi. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
On Norouz, the first day of the Persian New Year, Emomali Rahmon the President of Tajikistan spoke to euronews on the situation in the country 20 years after independence, relations with Russia and Iran and democratisation in the country.
euronews:
Your Excellency Emomali Rahmon President of Tajikistan, happy new year.
Do you see the Norouz as an occasion to celebrate the national identity of the Tajikistan?
Are the Norouz ceremonies these days the beginning of the restoration of Tajik identity which was so damaged by the former Soviet Union?
President Emomali Rahmon:
During the Soviet era, there were huge restrictions on performing traditions and national customs.
These celebrations were banned and those who practised them were persecuted.
But this celebration is in the heart of our people.
Even during more than 70 years of domination, the soviet regime could not abolish this tradition. ~~~ 
The same thing had happened even before the USSR, as it was thought to be against Islam, but finally it was accepted.
Norouz is the celebration of the victory of virtue over the vice.
It encourages good deeds.
It is about forgiveness.
Such a celebration is one of the rarest in the world.
euronews:
Iran has been under increasing international sanctions.
Have they had an impact on relations between Tajikistan and Iran?
President Emomali Rahmon:
As far as we know, the Islamic Republic of Iran does not intend to buy or make nuclear weapons.
Iran has progressed, the country has developed.
All the problems regarding the nuclear issue must be solved solely through dialogue and diplomatic means.
 ~~~ These sanctions have, of course, had an effect on us.
I think not only Tajikistan, but many of developed countries such as European countries and Japan have been affected as well.
The price of oil and gas have increased.
This benefits the oil-producing countries and not those consuming oil.
Many of the developed countries which used to buy Iran’s oil have been affected by these sanctions, negatively.
The increase in world oil and gas prices has, of course, damaged our economy.
euronews:
Roughly one million Tajik migrants work in Russia.
Has this caused problems for Tajik society and has it possibly helped Russia to continue its influence in Tajikistan?
President Emomali Rahmon:
About a million Tajik labourers and workers live and work in Russia.
Well, that is true, but where else can they go in the region?
Through their work, they help their families and also help the economy of their country. ~~~ 
The Government of Tajikistan has very good arrangements with the Russian authorities to support the rights and interests of the Tajik migrant workers in the Russian Federation.
I don’t believe that our relations and our strategic cooperation with Russia have restricted Tajikistan, that is not the case.
We have a foreign policy of open doors.
euronews:
Recently, Russia held presidential elections.
As the President of Tajikistan do you believe that simply holding elections in a country means there is democracy?
A government that has had the same policy and the same ideology for 70-80 years, cannot change in just 10-20 years into the model of a democratic and civilised society.
It takes time to change the mentality of people. ~~~ 
This process has started in Russia and other former Soviet republics.
During the Russian elections – in which political groups could freely express their opinions – did that not show some progress, moving towards democracy?
But you know that mistakes and errors are inevitable in the beginning.
An American or European style democracy in Russia or other former soviet republics in just a year or so, is impossible, it is just a dream.
euronews:
What is your opinion of human rights during these 20 years since Tajik independence.
Do you think the situation is satisfactory now?
President Emomali Rahmon:
I remember in 1990-91, in the first year of independence, there were only 4 private newspapers, we had just one TV station, and there was just one state-owned news agency.
But now there are more than 3000 active organisations, political parties, and NGOs.
 ~~~ Around 500 newspapers and magazines are published, 60% of which are privately-owned.
There are 44 television stations, just 4 of which belong to the government.
 ~~~ Little by little, we have done a lot of work to protect human rights in Tajikistan.
As you know we have many problems and this process regarding growth and development of our society will find its way, step by step.
euronews:
Tell me about security on the border between Tajakistan and Afghanistan?
How is this security provided?
and what of drug smuggling across the border?
President Emomali Rahmon:
If you compare today’s situation with ten or eleven years ago, there is a huge difference.
I must say that the security situation is much better now.
 ~~~ The big problem is drug smuggling.
The authorities in charge both in the Republic of Tajikistan and in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan are cooperating to fight this both at the borders and inside Afghanistan, but we need help from the international community. ~~~ 
Like problems of international terrorism and extremism, drug smuggling is a global problem.
It is not limited to Afghanistan, Tajikistan and Central Asia.
Why should we talk about this? ~~~ 
There are chemicals sent to Afghanistan to help production of chemical drugs.
There are no such factories manufacturing these chemicals in Tajikistan, or Afghanistan so where do they come from?
Through which countries are huge volumes of these materials smuggled?
In the future, this is where efforts must be targeted.
</text>
<text>
As the controversy swirls around the anti-Islam group, Pegida, in Germany, Euronews spoke to Aydan Özoğuz, the German Commissioner for Immigration, Refugees and Integration to find out what the government is doing in response.
Gizem Ada, euronewsl: “ Do you worry about the anti-Islamist Pegida movement, their demonstrations and the increasing interest in them?
”
Aydan Özoğuz: “ We saw a decrease in their number last week.
In fact we saw a decrease this week.
”
Gizem Adal, euronews: “ Was that after Lutz Bachmann’s resignation?
”
Aydan Özoğuz: “ We don’t know if it is connected to this resignation but marches opposing them have increased, attracting larger crowds than Pegida.
Maybe the sight of this affected them.
We don’t know but we saw a decrease in their numbers, which is good.
People are demonstrating against them in many cities.
Increasing numbers of people are saying, “ We want pluralism, we want these people, we are standing with our neighbours.
” They are saying, “ We will not let our society to be destroyed, we want to live together in peace.
” These are encouraging signs.
”
Gizem Adal, euronews: “ Why do you think this anti-Islamist Pegida movement became popular in Germany?
Are they only worried about Islam, or about the economy too?
”
Aydan Özoğuz: “ It’s a combination of things and maybe this is the biggest problem.
On one side we see the group’s organization, they might even be Nazis, they are so far to the right.
But many other people join them saying, “ Yes I’m afraid of the things I saw in France, a woman wearing a headscarf frightens me, or I don’t like them ” .
All of these exist. ~~~ And on internet forums people are saying, “ My salary is not enough, ” or “ I am unemployed and my benefits are not enough ” .
And maybe there’s a third factor: East Germany is still not fully integrated with West Germany.
So we can’t talk about the whole of Germany because there are differences within the country.
Of course, not everyone in East Germany is xenophobic, but many people don’t think that democracy has given them much, and we see that in Dresden, for example, more than 20,000 people demonstrated in support of Pegida.
But this is in a way good news because they couldn’t do it anywhere else in Germany and those demonstrators came from all over Germany.
And there were still only 20-25,000 of them.
But there are are no Muslims in Dresden, there isn’t any Islamic population there.
”
Gizem Adal, euronews: “ More than 4 million Muslims are living in Germany.
And considering that many of the immigrants who arrived during the 1960s are now employers themselves, these people really have contributed to German prosperity.
So what has the German government been doing to counter this movement, and Pegida in particular?
”
Aydan Özoğuz: “ The German government is following the events very closely.
The most important thing for us, and for the whole of society I think, is that everybody should be able to express their ideas on the street.
For sure the radicals are different.
But everybody has the right to say “ Yes, I’m afraid of this ” , they can even say “ I don’t like Muslims ” .
But that doesn’t mean they can cause fear or pursue Muslims, or harm them.
So we are following this issue. ~~~ We have to separate mainstream society from people who say that they are afraid.
We have to seperate society from far-right, populist organisations.
And we can only achieve this by coming together and talking.
”
Gizem Adal, euronews: “ In Europe the growth of the Salafi movement within Islam is a serious threat.
According to official numbers, nearly 7,000 Salafis live in Germany and young people, especially, are brainwashed via social media.
What kind of measures is your ministry taking, is the German government taking, about this issue?
”
Aydan Özoğuz: ‘‘These people really attract them.
”
Gizem Adal, euronews: “ Young people go to their meetings and meet them face to face.
”
Aydan Özoğuz: “ Or they approach young people.
The worst thing is they promise these young people a better life.
They say; ‘‘If you can’t integrate into this society … ” and we mostly come across this situation in Germany.
In other countries for example, lecturers go there to speak in public, but it is not like that in Germany.
These radicals focus mostly on young people who are not succeeding at school, who cannot find a place in the society.
Here we have to intensify our integration policy.
We have to focus more on helping everyone succeed at school, we must give these young people direction, and we are doing this.
In recent years, it’s been very successful.
But some think, “ Everybody should listen to me, I want to join a big, strong organization ” .
Listening to some young people who have returned for example.
They say they wanted to feel strong just once in their lives.
That means there are young people who don’t feel strong enough on their own.
I think we have to be more in touch with them and with their parents too.
”
Gizem Adal, euronews: “ Yes, with their parents and schools.
So we’re talking about 500 young people?
2-300 of who have returned?
Obviously, these are just estimates.
”
Aydan Özoğuz: ‘‘Some of them died there. ~~~ ”
Gizem Adal, euronews: “ Some of them died but these are estimates.
Most of these Salafis are German citizens.
What kind of measures you have taken after they returned?
”
Aydan Özoğuz: “ Obviously we have interviewed all of them and checked up on what they are doing, who they are meeting, what kind of mentality they have.
”
Gizem Adal, euronews: “ But their passports have not been confiscated, right?
”
Aydan Özoğuz: “ We are taking passports away now, so that in the future they will not be able to leave Europe.
At least not legally.
This is a signal to them.
The ones who are determined can find ways to leave, but returning will not be that easy.
We have to show that people’s culture is important, their religion is important, but if they kill other people, they are not part of this society.
This society has to stand up and say, “ We don’t want these kind of people.
What right have you to kill other people?
Is this the way to be a good Muslim?
” We have to say this more clearly, perhaps a little more aggressively. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Leoluca Orlando is back as Mayor in the Sicilian city of Palermo.
As a former MP for the centrist ‘Italy of Values​​’ party, he won the mayoral elections on May 21st with 72% of the vote.
This is his third stint as mayor, he also served during the 80s and the 90s, when the city was fighting for control against the Mafia.
This time round he wants everyone to take accountability to beat organised crime, once and for all.
Cecilia Cacciotto, euronews:
Why do you think you’ve been so successful?
Leoluca Orlando, Mayor of Palermo: I think that my candidature was seen as anti-elitist.
Right now it’s more important to give a voice to people’s needs and to give answers about Palermo’s troubled reality, than to lay down in a quiet place of privilege.
euronews: In the last local elections, the big parties broke down: what does this mean for Italy?
Leoluca Orlando, Mayor of Palermo: It was a break down for all the parties not just for the big ones: IDV- Italia dei Valori- my party that strongly supported me, got only the 11% of the votes in Palermo.
The Democratic Party and Berlusconi’s People of Freedom party got between 8% and 9%.
There’s a big crisis among the political parties because they don’t understand the people’s needs.
euronews: Palermo, town of hope and town of the mafia.
20 years ago, when the anti-mafia magistrate Giovanni Falcone was killed, negotiations between the state and the Mafia started.
Do you think they are still going on now?”.
Leoluca Orlando, Mayor of Palermo: Hopefully there are negotiations.
Before Palermo’s springtime, right after Falcone’s death, there weren’t any negotiations, we had no distinction between the state and the Mafia.
In this chair, mayors like Vito Ciancimino used to sit.
He didn’t negotiate with the Mafia, because he was the mafia.
Then, right through society, from this Town Hall, to the courts and the church, Palermo started to resist and react.
Cosa Nostra (the Mafia) was forced to open a dialogue.
That’s why I say negotiations between state and Mafia are the confirmation that the state is fighting the Mafia.
euronews: Once upon a time, the role of the Mafioso was legitimate in Sicilian society, it’s not like that anymore but the Mafia and a mafia culture still exist.
What do we need to do today to beat the Mafia?
Leoluca Orlando, Mayor of Palermo: Today, it’s maybe less dangerous to fight the Mafia, because there’s less killing.
But it’s still really really difficult.
Today Cosa Nostra aren’t looking for the material control of a territory, they want the financial and media media power.
If banks, if financial businessmen, if the State doesn’t understand that money is tainted from all branches of society, the idea will spread that there is nothing wrong with this.
Even the big bank, which gives me money to buy my house or to set up my business, doesn’t care about it.
It doesn’t pay any attention to the money’s provenance (origin).
And if it doesn’t, why should I?
euronews: Why is it, in Italy that even when a politician is under investigation and is suspected of dealing with the Mafia, he doesn’t step down? ~~~ In the rest of Europe the suspicion alone of copying a doctorate is enough for resignation.
Leoluca Orlando, Mayor of Palermo: This is why Italy is not in line with the rest of Europe.
I think Italy is not totally civilised, because if a politician sees a Mafioso and there is an investigation about it, what’s his first reaction?
He gives interviews saying “Yes, it’s true, I see Mafioso, but it’s not a crime, I trust in justice”.
What does that mean: I trust in justice?
In a situation like this, the politician should quit their post!
Our constitution imposes the full respect of the law, no crimes at all, and it imposes discipline and honour.
What’s missing in Italy is an ethical code for our political parties.
I’m ashamed!
I am deeply ashamed.
As MP, I presented a draft law in order to exclude people condemned for crimes from Parliament.
It’s amazing we even need a law for this, isn’t it a moral decision to be taken by yourself?
euronews: In 1996 you were under investigation because according to an ex Mafioso, turned police informer you received money from the Mafia.
Leoluca Orlando, Mayor of Palermo: (interrupts) I’ve never been under investigation.
euronews: Nothing came of it but I would like to know: in your political career, have you ever had any contact with people from Cosa Nostra?
Leoluca Orlando, Mayor of Palermo: First of all, I’ve never had any contact with Mafiosi.
Secondly, ever since the beginning of my political career, I’ve said I don’t want anything to do with the Mafia full stop, that’s why the Mafia doesn’t even try to get close to me.
In the 1985, the first time I was elected mayor of Palermo, I built a tribunal to house the biggest ever case against the Mafia and I brought a civil suit in a criminal case.
My whole history has made the Mafia stay well away from me.
It doesn’t mean, though, that the Mafia haven’t tried to get a foothold in the town hall nonetheless”.
euronews: Did they get in?
Leoluca Orlando, Mayor of Palermo: Yes, lots of times, but my reaction has been quite simple; I cut links by ending all the contracts I suspected involved the Mafia”.
euronews: Palermo town of hope, town of the mafia – what are your hopes for its future?
Leoluca Orlando, Mayor of Palermo: I would like to give Palermo back to its citizens.
I’m going to help Palermo by using my economical, financial and cultural contacts.
I’m going to help Palermo with my national and international contacts because I hope Palermo will become visible once again.
Over the last few years, Palermo was an invisible town, even for the Mafia it was invisible.
But the criminal activity still went on.
I very much want Palermo back on the front stage for its great initiatives and not for Mafia crimes”.
</text>
<text>
 ~~~ Following the loss of two more Ukrainian fighter jets to enemy fire, our Kyiv bureau chief Sergio Cantone asked him about what Arsenyuk calls ‘Russian-led guerrillas’.
Sergio Cantone, euronews: “ Do you think that Russia will accept a kind of cease-fire and a consequent negotiation after new sanctions? ~~~ ”
Arseniy Yatsenyuk, Ukrainian Prime Minister: “ Room still exists; there is room for some kind of talks.
But the only model of talks the Ukrainian government supports is the Geneva format: the United States, the European Union, Ukraine and Russia.
So, we still have the room, but we need to have a cell, a prison cell, for those who committed these international crimes. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ What do you expect over the next few weeks.
Do you think that this country that you are mentioning will increase its pressure against Ukraine? ~~~ ”
Yatsenyuk: “ Much depends on the ultimate goals of President Putin and his close allies in his regime.
We still consider that the ultimate goal of the Russian Federation is to eliminate Ukraine and to delete it from the world [map] … not to allow Ukraine to become a member of the big EU family, not to allow Ukraine to be an independent and free country.
We are fighting for our freedoms and liberties.
Look, we are fighting for our land, for our country and for our future, and in this case those who are fighting against us, they are on the dark side.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Now, considering the situation that is a very difficult one for Ukraine, do you think [now] is a good time from an internal policy point of view, a national policy point of view, to dissolve the parliament and to hold new elections, as soon as possible? ~~~ ”
Yatsenyuk: “ We have just two options, to be or not to be; on the one hand we need to pass an austerity package in the house, we need to push reforms and for this task we have to maintain stability and the majority in the parliament.
On the other hand we need to hear the will of the Ukrainian people.
They want to resume or to re-load the parliament, to have the new one and the majority of Ukrainians asking for snap parliamentary elections.
This could be a decision in between, I would say, for example, to have snap parliamentary elections after we impose peace and stability in the east of Ukraine. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Don’t you think that anyway in this country there is a strong need to give the people from the eastern part of the country, the people who are now suffering for this war, a political response?
There is a kind of lack of representation for them, from a political point of view at the moment.
What is your message for these people in view of the possibility of snap elections?
Yatsenyuk: “ First, let me be very clear, because probably you don’t know the reality of what’s on the ground in Ukraine.
The majority of all Ukrainian presidents, prime ministers and members of Ukrainian governments were from eastern Ukraine.
euronews: “ It is not that I don’t know the reality of the country, but that is what they say, so I have to… ”
Yatsenyuk: “ But, we need to talk again about the real facts.
The second issue is that the east of Ukraine has a huge and vast representation in the parliament and they entirely control their local parliaments too, local governments.
The third issue is that you are absolutely right, we need to find the political solution.
But first we need to figure out what kind of political demands these people have, for example, if it relates to the Russian language, I was the first one who said, look, we still have a valid law on the special status of Russian language. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ I’m not talking about the Russian language, I’m talking about their need, what they say: they don’t trust Kyiv.
Yatsenyuk: “ A few days ago I was in Slovyansk.
Slovyansk is a former stronghold of these Russian-led guerrillas, and it’s true that probably up to 30 percent of the indigenous people of the east don’t trust Kyiv.
And this is absolutely normal.
But I saw the eyes and the faces of those who were liberated by the Ukrainian army.
Probably they don’t like us, but they definitely hate these Russian-led guerrillas. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ A last question: will you give them the possibility to vote for their own governor, as part of a decentralisation, for instance?
Yatsenyuk: “ The idea we have — this so-called decentralisation programme … ”
euronews: “ Not federalisation?
Yatsenyuk: [indicates ‘no’] “ That was the Russian-shaped programme — how to eliminate Ukraine, to make it a federal state and to buy the parts of Ukraine. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ That’s the reason why I mention decentralisation.
” ~~~ Yatsenyuk: “ Decentralisation — what kind of idea do we have?
For today, the president has appointed governments [regional administrations].
We want to eliminate this institution [of appointment] and to allow the local councils directly to elect the governors, through the local council.
[We are] ready to do it, and the president has already introduced to the house [parliament] amendments to the constitution. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Against the backdrop of an unfolding hostage drama in Algeria, euronews spoke to Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the secretary general of NATO.
Currently faced with major conflicts in Afghanistan, Mali and Syria amongst others, Rasmussen told us what he saw as NATOs role in 2013.
Andrei Beketov, euronews:
Mr Rasmussen, thank you for welcoming euronews to NATO headquarters. ~~~ 
We are all watching the developing situation in the North of Africa.
Firstly, what’s your assessment of the hostage situation in Algeria?
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Secretary General of NATO:
I condemn in the strongest possible terms the attack, the murders and the hostage-taking.
I offer my sincere condolences to the families and loved ones of the workers who were killed and I express my strong solidarity with the countries affected.
Andrei Beketov, euronews:
There are suggestions that there is a new front opening up for NATO across the whole region – in Somalia, Mali and now Algeria, perhaps Niger and Mauritania.
Do you see it this way?
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Secretary General of NATO:
I don’t see a role for NATO as such. ~~~ Obviously we monitor the situation closely.
Actually we have been concerned for many years about the situation in the Sahel region – the activities of terrorist groups, extremists, criminal gangs.
This is also a reason why I welcome the swift action taken by France in Mali at the request of Mali’s president.
It’s my clear assessment that it was needed to take action to pave the way for and African-led stabilisation force.
Andrei Beketov, euronews: ~~~ Obviously France is a member of NATO.
Is NATO considering helping this operation with AWACS planes or drones or intelligence?
After all you are all sharing resources.
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Secretary General of NATO:
I don’t see a role for NATO as an organisation, but a number of individual NATO allies are assisting France with logistics, with transport capacity, surveillance, reconnaissance …
Andrei Beketov, euronews: ~~~ But they must be coordinating their efforts somehow through Brussels, through here.
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Secretary General of NATO:
NATO as an organisation is not involved. ~~~ Andrei Beketov, euronews:
And now the European Union is training soldiers from Mali. ~~~ The EU is providing medical facilities and so on.
Isn’t that NATO’s job?
Why is European Union doing it?
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Secretary General of NATO: ~~~ There is a strong need for the training and education of Mali’s armed forces.
So I welcome this EU training mission.
We can’t allow Mali to become a breeding ground for terrorism.
Andrei Beketov, euronews: ~~~ NATO has dealt with the ‘breeding ground for terrorism’ in Afghanistan.
Why not in Mali?
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Secretary General of NATO: ~~~ NATO can’t be the world’s policeman, travelling from country to country, solving all the problems.
So I think it’s a good idea to have a division of labour.
And let me remind you that the United Nation Security Council has mandated an African-led stabilisation force to take action in Mali.
Andrei Beketov, euronews: ~~~ And now NATO, these days, is helping it’s member Turkey to defend itself by deploying Patriot missiles.
But Turkey is not under threat of military invasion or systematic big shelling.
Aren’t Patriot missiles too strong a weapon for this kind of threat?
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Secretary General of NATO:
No, it’s an absolutely appropriate measure to take, a purely defensive measure.
We have seen security incidents along the Syrian-Turkish borders.
We have seen shelling across the border, loss of life on the Turkish side of the border.
We have seen the launch of missiles on Syrian territory but close to the Turkish border. ~~~ So there is a real potential threat.
An this is a reason why NATO allies decided to demonstrate a clear solidarity with Turkey and augment Turkey’s air defence so that we can assure the effective protection of the Turkish population and Turkish territory. ~~~ Andrei Beketov, euronews:
But Patriot missiles could also be used for other maybe offensive actions like patrolling a no-fly-zone.
Are there any plans to use them or any other weapons in further military action if the situation in and around Syria escalates?
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Secretary General of NATO:
We have no intention to intervene militarily in Syria and we have made it clear right from the outset that the deployment of the Patriot missiles is a purely defensive measure.
We have no intention to use it to prepare a no-fly-zone.
Is it a further pressure on the Damascus regime and an encouragement for the rebels – the deployment of these weapons?
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Secretary General of NATO:
The purpose of this deployment is effective defence and protection of the Turkish population and Turkish territory.
but having said that of course it also acts as a clear deterrence so that the regime in Damascus doesn’t even think about attacking Turkey.
And I really urge regime in Damascus to accommodate the legitimate aspirations of Syrian people and stop the crackdowns on the civilian population.
It’s absolutely outrageous what we are witnessing in Syria.
Andrei Beketov, euronews:
We mentioned Afghanistan.
Your operation there is at it’s late stage.
After 2014 will there be any NATO personnel left in Afghanistan or will there be a ‘zero option’ as some American officials suggest?
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Secretary General of NATO:
We follow our plan. ~~~ Our plan is to gradually hand over and leave the responsibility for the security to the Afghans.
So by the end of 2014 our current ISAF combat mission will be completed.
From January 1 2015 we will establish a training mission to give advice, to assist and to train the Afghan security forces.
That’s our ambition.
Andrei Beketov, euronews:
Have you got figures of the personnel?
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Secretary General of NATO:
No we have not yet decided on the size of that training mission, we will make this decision in the very near future.
We are in the process of the planning that future mission.
</text>
<text>
Many countries and investors dream of hiring architect of the moment, Frank Gehry.
Euronews spoke to the Canadian-American in Oviedo, Spain, where he has received yet another award in a career already brimming with international accolades.
At 85 years old, the creator of Bilbao's Guggenheim Museum, says he isn’t even considering retiring, but wants to continue making history with extravagant and spectacular buildings.
Javier Villagarcía, euronews: “ You just unveiled an impressive new Museum in Paris, while the Pompidou Centre is celebrating your career.
Here in Oviedo you have been honoured with the Prince of Asturias Award.
How do you feel about so much recognition?
Frank Gehry: “ Very suspicious!
I work always with a healthy insecurity.
So I don’t really believe all this stuff.
It’s nice, it feels good, it’s kind of peripheral.
I can’t explain it, I don’t know … ”
euronews: “ The French President, François Hollande, described the Louis Vuitton Foundation as a ‘Cathedral of Light’.
Some other guests on the opening night saw a fish, a cloud, a sail boat … What is it, Mr Gehry?
”
Frank Gehry: “ Everything.
There’s all kinds of metaphors, I guess.
But I’m a sailor, I do sail, and when you use glass you can’t hang paintings on glass so the real building is inside – it’s a double building – and so it sails throughout the park, kind of.
”
euronews: “ Where do you get the inspiration to create such an extraordinary building?
”
Frank Gehry: “ First inspiration is Paris, second is the holiness, the sacredness of the site.
The Jardin d'Acclimatation is a 19th-century park – a children’s park – where Proust played, that’s important.
I have a client, Bernard Arnault.
He is kind of an artist in a way.
I know he’s trained as an engineer, but with all his work with the fashion world and so on, he knows how to work with artists, with people who are creative ” .
euronews: “ We are talking about Bernard Arnault, the LVMH chairman.
He commissioned you after a visit to the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao.
How important is that museum in your career?
”
Frank Gehry: “ Bilbao?
Oh my God … I don’t know what percentage, but it was pretty important, I think.
The impact, on the city… it changed the city.
It was an economic win-win for everybody.
And it was modest in price; 80 million euros in 1997.
Since then it’s paid back 17 years.
The city looks very different now than it did when I first arrived. ~~~ It’s very prosperous-looking.
So I’m very happy about that.
It’s a miracle, somehow.
”
euronews: “ Many cities now would like now their own Guggenheim.
Could you, as an architect … ”
Frank Gehry: “ But, they don’t hire me.
They hire other architects to do it.
It’s an interesting thing, though, isn’t it?
It’s a funny thing.
They don’t want one like me, they want another guy to do one … another person … and sometimes they can’t.
”
euronews: “ So you can, as an architect, promise another city or rich investor the same impact?
”
Frank Gehry: “ I can’t promise.
But it’s been happening a lot.
It happened in Disney Hall.
It happened in Chicago and the park.
Maybe I’m lucky.
”
“ euronews: ” “ I’m going to quote you now. ~~~ You said in a documentary eight years ago: ‘I want to hide under the covers when my buildings open.
I’m terrified about what people think.’ Is that still the case?
”
Frank Gehry: “ Yes!
If I step outside myself to other people, sometimes people act very self-importantly when they do a building or do something.
I can’t relate to that very easily.
Maybe it’s a false modesty, I don’t know. ~~~ 
“ It’s just the way I am, I can help it.
Because I’m always working on a new building and I call it ‘the healthy insecurity’ that I’m always doing something I’m not sure is going to be any good.
euronews: “ I read that some describe your talent as a ‘brilliant madness‘… ”
Frank Gehry: Madness!
It’s not so mad actually.
First of all, I’m a human being, I have human DNA and I can’t escape the limitations of being a human being, I cannot escape.
Great artists are always called mad, I guess, so I should be flattered.
”
euronews: “ You have many projects ongoing now: a new Guggenheim, this time in Abu Dhabi; a Facebook campus in California; the Eisenhower Memorial in Washington.
Do you ever think about slowing down, or even retiring?
”
Frank Gehry: “ I’m thinking about it right now… I’d like to go lie down!
 ~~~ “ I don’t know how.
I enjoy the work.
I enjoy meeting people.
I have a nice team.
We’ve developped a great team. ~~~ 
“ I have a mission, kind of, to re-empower the architect in the equation.
Today in the world the architect is less important than a contractor, and I want to put it back so at least the architect should run the project.
And I’ve developped computer programmes with Dassault and now with Trimble to eliminate change orders.
“ When we did Bilbao, it was really the first real effort at using that software and that process and we saved a lot of money, in a building that will normally be extra for the contractor.
So we squeezed it down.
And so that gives more power to the architect, it gives me more relevance to allow me to do things, do more expressive buildings.
“ The only reason to do more expressive buildings is to humanise them.
Dull glass boxes are cold and not friendly to humanity and I am trying to change some of that. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ To finish this interview, I’m going to quote you again.
You said to the curator of the Louis Vuitton Museum, ‘I made you a violin, now you have to play it’, is that right?
Frank Gehry: “ Yes, I did.
Yesterday I said that.
”
euronews: “ Well from euronews, we already thank you for the music.
Thank you very much, Mr Gehry.
”
</text>
<text>
Ahmet Davutoglu is seen as the architect of the new Turkish foreign policy over the last decade.
Political scientist and historian, he is often dubbed “ the Turkish Kissinger ” .
Turkey has become an important regional political and diplomatic state, overcoming years of neighbourhood tensions.
He has been talking to Euronews on Syria and the impasse in Turkey-EU membership talks. ~~~ 
Bora Bayraktar: “ Minister thank you for joining us.
Syria remains a hot topic these days and the crisis continues.
The Annan plan has given more time to the regime.
There are efforts to unify the Syrian opposition and a buffer zone option is also on the table.
Does the continuation of the crisis spell trouble for Turkey?
Ahmet Davutoğlu: “ Off course. ~~~ Continuation of the crisis does not only spell trouble for Turkey but for the whole region, because the geopolitical location of Syria is critical.
It’s in close interactivity with all its neighbouring countries.
It’s a very important neighbour of Turkey.
Any tension arising from Syria has the potential to affect all the neighbouring countries.
Therefore leaving this issue to time and observing the situation by standing back and waiting is not the right option.
The international community must step in to prevent the crisis becoming a major cause of instability.
Euronews: “ Do you see any risk of armed conflict?
Ahmet Davutoğlu: “ There are already heavy clashes in Syria. ~~~ ”
Euronews: “ Could it spread beyond Syria?
” ~~~ Ahmet Davutoglu: “ It depends on the course of the developments within the country, but the risk of the clashes spreading beyond Syria’s borders is always there.
All internal conflicts in the end affect neighbouring countries and other regional nations.
That is obvious.
Therefore, we have humanitarian and historical responsibilities to the Syrian people and we are determined to implement them.
‘We are also determined to do this with the international community.
If this conflict starts threatening Turkey’s interests and national security then Turkey has the right to take the necessary precautions for its national security.
Euronews: “ You have just returned from Iran.
Syria has become an important issue between Turkey and Iran with the two countries split over their approach to the country’s leader.
How has this issue impacted on your relations, has it put a strain on the relationship between Turkey and Iran?
Ahmet Davutoğlu: “ Well, no.
Relations between Turkey and Iran are deep rooted, built on the fact we are neighbours.
When we have disagreements on certain issues we share our thoughts with them as we have done in the past.
Our Prime Minister explained very clearly our worries to his Iranian counterpart when we were there.
Of course we have some disagreements over the stance of Syrian government and its future.
We remain in constant contact with Iran to overcome these problems.
Syria shares a border with Turkey and we are very concerned by the developments in Syria.
It’s important for the international community to acknowledge our position.
” ~~~ Euronews: “ It seems the European Union issue has dropped down the Turkish agenda.
It seems relations between the EU and Turkey will freeze when Cyprus takes up the EU presidency.
What is your take on Turkish-EU relations and how they will develop?
” ~~~ Ahmet Davutoğlu: “ I don’t think it is right to say that our relations with the EU are not moving forward.
Last week for the first time in the history of Turkish-EU relations I was invited to a Foreign Affairs Council Meeting in Brussels.
I gave a speech there.
The relations themselves are developing, but we have problems with the negotiations for membership.
‘With the integration of South Cyprus in the EU, an irregularity has appeared and it has reached a second stage.
In fact, according to the EU Acquis Communautaire all the Island became a member of the EU.
Now the Greek Cypriots – a country which does not represent all of Cyprus – are taking over the presidency of the European Union.
So the irregularity is opening up.
If the EU does not show the ability to overcome this weakness, the negotiations won’t be able to progress easily no matter how successfully Turkey does its homework and prepares.
‘First of all the European Union has to question itself and has to take a decision.
The EU has to show it wants to remove all the obstacles that are blocking Turkey’s full membership.
If the EU wants to become a global power, geographically and culturally, having a geopolitical basis, and being economically dynamic and culturally inclusive then Turkey’s membership is mandatory. ~~~ 
‘Turkey’s economy has become very strong and dynamic.
All this shows that Turkey has a strategic value for the European Union.
But we need European leaders who are capable of understanding that.
There is a need for visionary leadership in the bloc.
Unfortunately, without such a visionary, it is hard for Turkey and the EU to find a new dimension in their relations.
Euronews: “ A last question on the visa issue between Turkey and the EU.
Turkey demands the freedom of movement within the EU.
For some reason these demands have not been met.
For you, who is blocking Turks’ free movement within the EU? ~~~ ”
Ahmet Davutoğlu: “ Well, this issue is vital for us.
It is an important subject and it shouldn’t be seen as a favour.
Let me make it clear, it is a right for Turkish citizens.
It was imperative to have visa liberalisation over time starting from 1996 after the Customs Union Agreement.
“ There are several decisions taken by European Courts which refer to the visa implementation being against European laws.
The logic of the Customs Union Agreement and the decisions of the European courts demonstrate that the visa implementation is illegal.
Moreover, it is hard to understand politically the visa restrictions while some Latin America countries that are not even candidates are exempt from visa regulations.
It is not a legitimate attitude.
‘Despite promises to soften visa regulations, some European countries are said to have objected to it.
But when we have bilateral talks with those countries opposed to lifting the visa restrictions, they deny they are against Turkey’s free movement within the EU.
A new meeting will be held by the EU Internal Affairs Commission on April 26.
We hope we will make progress on this issue in that meeting.
In conclusion, European Union members must understand that free movement is a right for Turkish citizens and we will do everything we can to have this right recognised. ~~~ ” ~~~ Euronews: “ Thank you very much. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Euronews Egypt correspondent Mohammad Shaikhibrahim has been in conversation with Mr.
Azzam Al-Ahmad the Fatah movement’s delegation chief and its official handling the reconciliation with Hamas.
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews: “ How do you describe the progress which was made in achieving the Palestinian reconciliation especially as years passed without reaching any real agreement?
”
Azzam al-Ahmad: “ The first thing that happened to influence the agreement was the revolution of June 30 in Egypt which has affected the whole region.
I have said previously that the period after June 30 and what happened in Egypt was an earthquake and the tremors and its influence will continue for a long time.
‘The first reflection of what happened in Egypt was and will continue to be in Palestine, and the situation will change inside Gaza, it will either influence the thinking of Hamas and its attitude, or the attitude of the people of Gaza about the situation.
 ~~~ ‘The second reason is the alliances that have changed in the Middle East which impacted the Palestinian situation, as what happened in the Gulf countries, and their attitude of supporting the revolution of June 30 in Egypt.
”
Euronews: “ Do you mean that the fall of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt has helped you to facilitate and to complete the reconciliation with Hamas, which is considered part of the Muslim Brotherhood?
”
Azzam al-Ahmad: “ Certainly, this played a basic role, if the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas a group which is a part of them had wanted to end the division and complete what they signed in the past, which was the agreement signed in Egypt on May 4, 2011 it would have been possible for them to do so.
But the Muslim Brotherhood ruled in Egypt for one year and the reconciliation process did not advance one step.
”
Euronews: “ To what extent are you worried of the possibility that Hamas will break the reconciliation agreement?
”
Azzam al-Ahmad: “ No, we are not worried, but we are cautious, I do not think they will retract on what has been agreed because the division has ended forever, and it will not be back.
‘Now if they do think about another split then that would require new tools and new ways which are not available to them at the moment.
Euronews: “ Some people said that this reconciliation is a sham, and that Hamas still effectively controls the Gaza Strip, what is your response to that thinking?
”
Azzam al-Ahmad: “ First of all, my language has been very clear and unequivocal.
I told you the division has ended legally and politically.
I told you there is a state of occupation, therefore, how do we deal with the issue of weapons in Gaza?
‘This a complex and thorny matter, and it is not easy, some people have asked if Hamas would try the Hezbollah experience in Gaza.
I want to point out to you we are fully aware of that.
“
Euronews: “ What are the main obstacles facing the Palestinian government of the national reconciliation?
”
Azzam al-Ahmad: “ Firstly, the unity of all institutions, civilian and security.
Looking at security, some military factions within the security agencies have not been formed with the backing of the law and according to the reconciliation agreement a top level security committee is to be formed by President Mahmoud Abbas, as the supreme leader of the security agencies, to unite these factions, under the supervision of Egypt and the Arab League.
‘On the other hand, in the light of the peace process, the position of the Israeli occupation and its role is an important factor facing the new government.
”
Euronews: “ What kind of pressure did Israel impose upon you to not complete the reconciliation with Hamas and what are Israel’s interest to not reach the agreement?
”
Azzam al-Ahmad: “ Israel tried to carry out financial sanctions, but we told them, across the United States and the European Union, that if they imposed those financial sanctions we would go immediately to the United Nations and all its institutions, including the four Geneva Conventions and the FAO and the International Criminal Court. ~~~ 
‘Furthermore, perhaps we will take other steps more than those, such as a declaration of the state from a single side, with the support of the international community, according the decision made on November 29, 2011 to accept Palestine as a member of the United Nations, and the escalation of the popular fighting, and finally to stop any possibility of returning to negotiations.
”
Euronews: “ How does the incident of the disappearance of three Israeli settlers affect the reconciliation agreement with Hamas and how does it impact on establishing a new national accord government during this period?
”
Azzam al-Ahmad: “ The first statement from Israel accused President Mahmoud Abbas and put the responsibility upon him.
But they did not have any information and they don’t know where the settlers are, or even if they have actually been kidnapped, or if there may have been an accident or if they may have disappeared or if there is some sort of game.
 ~~~ ‘What happened raises many questions which still remain.
Especially because the region where this happened is called Etzion which is located between Hebron and Bethlehem.
‘It is an area with a very large settlement, and the Palestinian Authority does not have a presence there, also there are no Arab villages in that area, the region contains settlements and Israeli camps.
‘However, this shows that Israel is unable to maintain security, and Hamas has so far denied any connection to the incident.
Hamas has not recognised this process, and as yet Israel has not proved if they really were kidnapped and by whom.
‘Israel has exercised a policy of fascism with traditional occupation, represented by repression and persecution of all Palestinians.
”
</text>
<text>
UN condemnation of Israel’s continuing demolitions of Palestinian homes casts a cold light on peace.
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim, euronews: “ After three years of zero progress, Palestinian-Israeli negotiations have begun again, hoping to reach a resolution that may lead the Palestinians to achieve their hope of establishing their own independent state, alongside the state of Israel.
To shed more light on the challenges faced by both parties in the negotiations, we welcome Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erekat.
About four months of relaunched negotiations have passed; have any tangible results been achieved?
” ~~~ Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erekat: “ I can’t say there have been any real results because of Israeli behaviour away from the negotiating table since the beginning of negotiations again on 29 July.
This resulted in the killing of 31 Palestinians in cold blood, in addition to the Israelis introducing tenders for the construction of 5,992 housing units – which is equivalent to three times normal growth in New York City!
Moreover, 209 houses and other Palestinian constructions were destroyed, and there were attacks on the al-Aqsa mosque, plus a rising of terrorist actions by the settlers by 41 percent and a tightening of the siege on the Gaza strip.
This kind of behaviour means one thing: that the Israeli government is determined to destroy the negotiations. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ The latest statements from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu show that he will not stop the settlements even for an hour.
It seems that you are negotiating only with Tzipi Livni, and not the Israeli government, is that right?
Erekat: “ The Israeli government bears responsibility for the settlements.
The Israeli prime minister has already chosen settlements rather than negotiation.
He chose to dictate rather than pursue the peace process.
Therefore, the Israeli government bears all the responsibility for this crisis in negotiations. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ What are the basic disagreement points between you and the Israeli side?
” ~~~ Erekat: “ I can’t go deeply into the details of negotiations, but what must be constructed under the legitimacy of international law is clear and specific.
A Palestinian state has no meaning without announcing East Jerusalem as its capital, and there is no Palestine without the Gaza strip as a part of it.
Gaza means the Mediterranean and total incorporation.
We are the same people.
We cannot end this struggle without finding a solution for the refugee issue, referring to UN resolution 194. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ What are the choices supposed to be in case the negotiations fail?
” ~~~ Erekat: “ Today, Palestine could have membership in 63 organisations and protocols with international charters, including the four Geneva conventions, Vienna and the International Criminal Court.
Everybody who is afraid of the international courts must stop their crimes.
We are building strong relations with the European Union in order to dry swamp settlements, and we are also building relations with Latin America.
We are seeking to get the highest possible number of countries to recognise the Palestinian state, especially within the European Union.
But Benjamin Netanyahu has a strategy also based on three foundations: he needs a Palestinian authority without power, and he needs an Israeli occupation without cost, and he is trying to move the Gaza Strip away from the Palestinian space.
So, to break his strategy we need to rechannel Palestinian efforts, because we must help each other in this issue.
Netanyahu must be aware that we are going to ask for membership in all the 63 international organisations including the International Criminal Court. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ What are the main reasons which lead you to not admit Israel as a Jewish state?
” ~~~ Erekat: “ Basically, this makes us admit that this land is a Jewish land, and I will not accept that at all.
I will not change my religion, history and my culture.
Political circumstances and international law say that there are two countries on the borders of 1967, and we accept that, but we will not accept Israel as a Jewish state under any circumstance. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ There was talk about land exchange between Israel and the Palestinian authority, versus keeping some settlements in the West Bank; do you accept that?
Erekat: “ There was talk about exchanging land of similar value.
Let me say this: our attitude is that we can talk about that subject only in a case where Israel admits to our state according to the border of 1967, because land exchange is possible between countries, and it is a sovereign matter for each country.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Are there any security arrangements under the current American sponsorship, especially in the valleys – which are the borders with Jordan? ~~~ ”
Erekat: “ These are Jordanian-Palestinian borders, since Israel has finished its gradual withdrawal.
We will not accept any Israeli staying on our eastern and western borders, nor in any port or passageway or territorial waters, or in Palestinian airspace.
This is an independent, full sovereign state of Palestine.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Do you accept the presence of international troops? ~~~ ”
Erekat: “ We welcome international troops, and we don’t reject their presence.
We see it in different regions in the world, under peaceful circumstances in many. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ How about a proposal to put international troops in Jerusalem? ~~~ ”
Erekat: “ Why?
Why Jerusalem?
Jerusalem is totally occupied land, like Rafah, Khanyounes and Jericho.
If there is a specific issue related to the holy places, then this is a sovereign matter for the state.
But Jerusalem is no different from any occupied land since 1967, according to international law.
It is dealt with as the Arab-Syrian occupied Golan is dealt with, and as the occupied Lebanese land is dealt with.
Discussing privacy here and there, and talking about the holy places, devolves to the sovereign state.
Jerusalem, according to the borders of 1967, is six square kilometres – in addition to four square kilometres around the mosque.
These are occupied lands; it is not legitimate to occupy land by force. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Over two years after the fall of the Gaddafi regime, Libyans are still dreaming of law and order.
But they find themselves surrounded by chaos, in an explosive environment under the control of both tribal and extremist militia.
Libya has become a source of concern throughout the region.
To discuss topics such as disarmament, security, economy and the vision for the new Libyan state, Euronews talked to the President of the interim government in Libya , Mr Ali Zeidan.
Daleen Hassan, euronews: “ The world wants to hear from you, what is happening in Libya?
”
Ali Zeidan, Libyan Prime Minister: “ What is happening in Libya is the natural fallout of a huge event that shook the whole of Libya at different levels.
It caused a situation of insecurity, which provoked negative repercussions.
This state of affairs is normal in the transitional phase, although it harmed the Libyan people.
I really wish that we could have avoided the crisis we went through to reach this stage but realistically, in the circumstances, that was not possible.
I see that there are still great hopes to change the situation and I think that now there is some degree of control.
”
Daleen Hassan , euronews: “ As an interim government, you were tasked with leading the transition from the previous system to a safe institutional state.
Do you think you’ve been successful in your mission?
” ~~~ Ali Zeidan, Libyan Prime Minister: “ In my opinion, at least over the past three months, we have seen significant development, the most important part being that we have actually established an army and a police force.
Lately we have seen the first police officers graduate, and they have begun working on the task of maintaining security in the streets.
“ Armed brigades are now on their way out of Tripoli.
Secondly, we are working on integrating all militia members wanting to join the army or the police.
“ We are in a process of intensive training and this will help to improve the security situation, and the government will be able to function more productively, especially with the support of our people.
“ If there were no cooperation between the government and the National Congress, we couldn’t advance in our work.
I can confirm that there is an understanding between us, so we can move to another stage and bring stability to the country.
“ Our government is working according to National Congress legislation.
For one year, we have been going through tough times, which are still ongoing.
“ Compatibility between Libyan parties exists and we are looking to get better convergence of views and ideas.
We have made great strides in this matter, and we are getting close to electing a committee to write a constitution.
”
Daleen Hassan, euronews: “ When do you expect to hold the next presidential elections in Libya?
”
Ali Zeidan, Libyan Prime Minister: “ So far, we do not know how the constitution will be written and whether Libya will be under a presidential system or a different system.
This issue will be decided after the constitution has been written.
In my estimation, that will be six months after the constitution is adopted.
”
Daleen Hassan, euronews: “ The eastern region of Libya has called for the establishment of a federal state.
What is your position on this matter?
Do you envisage a federal government in Libya in the long run?
Ali Zeidan, Libyan Prime Minister: “ It’s a limited number of people from the eastern region that have demanded this and it was absolutely rejected in various other places in the Eastern Province. ~~~ 
We want to emphasize unity in Libya; federalism is out of the question.
We are against centralism.
It’s true that some people resent the centralism in the capital at the expense of other areas.
I mean, some people think good services and development only exist in Tripoli and its suburbs.
But this is not true because services were absent from Libya entirely.
We’re looking to establish local administration in every region of the country. ~~~ 
Daleen Hassan, euronews: “Let’s talk about the economy.
Libya is well known as a rich oil state, but recently we’ve been hearing of significant losses – thought to be around 7 billion dollars – from well closures.
How do you you intend to deal with this?
Is the Libyan economy in danger? ~~~ ”
Ali Zeidan, Libyan Prime Minister: “ The Libyan economy is not in danger.
The general state budget is set annually according to the previous year’s resources.
It’s true that the rate of oil production has declined significantly, but we still have oil underground.
Therefore, the magnitude of the loss in terms of the decrease in production and the disruption to state oil apparatus is huge.
Importantly, I’d like to point out that we are in discussions to open up pipelines at the ports in order to export the oil.
And this will take place in the coming days.
If we succeed, it will be ideal, but if we don’t, we hope this will happen peacefully and we hope that we will not be obliged to take more severe action.
”
Daleen Hassan, euronews: “ Tunisian authorities have complained about Libyan weapons being leaked to Tunisian extremists.
How can you better police the border with Tunisia and is this possible under current circumstances?
”
Ali Zeidan, Libyan Prime Minister: “ This issue must be solved by the effective solidarity of both countries.
I told the Tunisian President that we should cooperate fully in order to adjust security and mobility across the border of both countries, and to ensure their safety and security.
“ To ensure regional peace, we are trying to globally address cross-border crime.
This issue is of concern to us and to our neighbours across the region.
We hope that we, together with our brothers in Tunisia, can address this issue efficiently and professionally.
Daleen Hassan, euronews: “ Concerning relations with the European Union, how are they going and what is the current level of cooperation between Libya and the EU?
”
Ali Zeidan, Libyan Prime Minister: “ We started to cooperate with the EU at the beginning of the revolution, and there has been diplomatic cooperation at the headquarters of the EU in Strasbourg.
Europe has helped us a lot during the different stages of the revolution.
We have a strong connection that we are seeking to develop, especially in matters of security control, the issue of illegal immigration and adjusting the costs of security measures, and the security of the southern borders.
And, for sure, they are helping us to train and rehabilitate the army and police forces.
”
Daleen Hassan, euronews: “ What are your own ongoing concerns?
”
Ali Zeidan, Libyan Prime Minister: “ What worries me is that people are ignorant of many things and behave in a hostile manner simply because of their ignorance.
What also worries me in this regard is that, I don’t always have the necessary elements at my disposal to inform people and make them understand.
“ This matter hurts me personally, as I understand people’s anxiety and why they cast blame, but at the same time people might not always know the whole truth.
”
</text>
<text>
The debate on Scottish independence has intensified over the summer with polls showing a drop in support for a breakaway from the UK.
A referendum is expected in the autumn of 2014. ~~~ 
The campaign against independence is being led by Alistair Darling of the opposition Labour party.
He recently launched the ‘Better Together’ movement, which brings together political opponents of separation. ~~~ He spoke to euronews in Edinburgh.
Ali Sheikholeslami, euronews: Mr Darling you made a passionate defence of the United Kingdom when you launched the ‘Better Together’ campaign, what is at the heart of your argument?
Alistair Darling, leader of the Better Together campaign: I think that the heart of the argument is that Scotland is better together with the rest of the UK just as the UK is better with Scotland, we are more than the sum of the parts – not just on an emotional level but critically on an economic level -we have an economic union and at a time of deep uncertainty, to head off to a very uncertain destination with so many unanswered questions seems to me to be a very foolish course of action to take.
euronews: What is it that you’re opposing?
Is it some dangerous, ugly nationalism?
Is it football crowd politics like we will support anyone who plays against England?
Alistair Darling: “ My argument is that not only are there emotional ties that most of us are proud to be Scottish, we’re proud to be British and we don’t have to choose, we don’t want to have to choose.
We’ve got friends and relations north and south of the border and we don’t want to make each other foreigners so there’s an emotional argument, but the key argument I suspect in this campaign as it is in most campaigns: it’s the economy.
We are part of one economic unit, a lot of Scottish businesses – the financial services industry for example – trades very heavily into England and the rest of the UK.
Similarly in relation to our other large countries and just as we believe it’s in Britain’s interest to be in the European Union, I believe it is in Scotland’s best interest to join forces with its largest economic neighbour.
Alistair Darling: “ Oil is relatively easy in that there are international conventions and laws that govern that, the problem is that it’s a finite resource and when it goes, it isn’t obvious where else you’d be going.
But of course you’re right, there are all sorts of arguments on the economic front like how is our national debt to be apportioned?
There’s a whole question of currency where the nationalists, having had 80 years to think about it, this year alone they’ve had three different versions of what they would do.
The present policy means you’ve got to get agreement with the rest of the UK to have a currency union just at a time when the rest of Europe is finding that currency unions take you back to political union.
So there are a lot of unanswered questions, membership of the European Union and so on, on which the nationalists have been very, very quiet.
They simply assert that certain things will happen, but there’s absolutely no evidence to say that they will.
” ~~~ euronews: “ They have said on the currency side that they want to keep on using the pound and keep a monetary union with the United Kingdom.
However, I believe they would not have any influence on the Bank of England’s policy would they?
Alistair Darling: “ Well if you have a currency union you need both sides to agree to be in it, and what you’d have to do is to persuade England, Wales and Northern Ireland to go into a currency union with Scotland, which would then be a foreign country.
Now that would mean Scotland would have to submit its budgets for approval, as you’re seeing in the eurozone now, that isn’t freedom, it’s serfdom, it’s a ridiculous situation and also in relation to the Bank of England, the Bank of England’s monetary policy committee is not set up on a regional basis, it’s set up on expertise to target an inflation rate and there are questions for example: who would be the lender of last resort?
Which central bank?
You have to ask yourself, why would England, Wales and Northern Ireland agree to be the lender of last resort for what would then be a foreign country?
Which is what the nationalists say would happen and none of this has been discussed with those other countries, let alone agreed and at a time when there’s so much uncertainty around in Europe and the rest of the world, I think it comes back to the same argument, I think we are better together than we are apart.
” ~~~ euronews: “ As you rightly mentioned, oil is not going to last forever, but after oil, how viable could an independent, Scottish economy be?
Alistair Darling: “ Well we don’t know what’s going to happen in any economy really in the next 20 or 30 years and there’s certainly oil there for some time to come.
The question is, when it does run out then what do you do?
Well their argument is renewables.
Now at the moment, the renewables industry in Scotland is heavily dependent on a subsidiary from the United Kingdom which would presumably come to a halt if there were a break up of the UK.
I think, the argument I have is that if you look at Scotland’s economy, parts of it are doing very well, but parts of it could be doing an awful lot better with the right approach.
We are very heavily dependent if we separated away from North Sea oil and as we’ve seen recently when our financial services in two of our banks got into very serious trouble: RBS and HBOS, it was the strength of the UK that actually saved the day.
When I was a Chancellor (finance minister), I could write a cheque to stop the entire system from collapsing, I couldn’t have done that with a much smaller economy. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Another question is whether the referendum will go ahead in 2014 and one, I think, pivotal question is what’s going to happen with devo max.
Is it a straight question, yes or no, or is it going to be more powers or more independence for Scotland but not full independence?
Alistair Darling: “ Well I’m very clear and I think most independent commentators are clear that we need a clear question, are you staying together with the UK or are you leaving?
If you’re staying then of course the question of, do you want further powers devolved to Scotland arise.
The problem at the moment is that when you refer to terms like devo max and devo plus, nobody actually knows what they mean.
Do they mean a little bit more devolution or as Alex Salmond would say, an awful lot more, everything but foreign affairs, let’s say foreign affairs or something and I don’t think you can put that on the ballot paper, a proposition that the voter doesn’t understand and if it were passed, no one would actually understand what it meant.
Whereas I think people do understand what independence means and they do understand what staying in the United Kingdom means.
That’s the question that ought to be put and you’d have thought that a nationalist party that’s been in business for 80 years – and that’s the only reason that it exists – would be only too pleased to put that question before people in Scotland, but they’re running away from it because they’re pretty clear they know what the answer would be.
euronews: “ You have been the Chancellor, what would be the advantage of independence for a Scottish economy?
” ~~~ Alistair Darling: ‘Well, it’s difficult to see what the advantage would be, I mean the nationalists tell you that it would mean they could cut corporation tax but do you think for one moment that a much larger neighbour would allow that to happen?
They’d cut their corporation tax too and find it rather easier to do it.
So I think in today’s world, where it’s increasingly obvious that the economies are inter-dependent and that of course countries can do certain things on their own and certainly, we outside the euro for example have a greater freedom but the idea that a small country can buck the economic trend and can do something completely different from everywhere else is, you know..
The nationalists used to point to Iceland and Ireland, well they don’t do that very much at the moment, so I just honestly don’t see what the advantages would be, I see a lot of downside but I think there’s a great deal more upside if we stayed part of the United Kingdom.
” ~~~ Follow Ali Sheikholeslami on Twitter
</text>
<text>
France Telecom Orange is the leading telecommunications operator in France and is one of the most active internationally, with a turnover of 46 billion euros. ~~~ 
Present in 35 Countries, it is facing, like its competitors, the challenges of a sector going through a top-to-toe evolution, not only because of the current economic crisis.
Euronews’ Giovanni Magi interviewed CEO Stéphane Richard:
“ France Telecom Orange just announced it is creating 4,000 new jobs, but this only partially offsets the number of retirements.
Is this due to the general economic crisis or the arrival of France’s 4th mobile operator? ~~~ ”
Stéphane Richard:
“ Both.
It is true that the French market has seen a sharp decline in operators’ turnover; this is related to a decrease in the revenue per subscriber of around 10 per cent this year, which is considerable.
Plus, you have an economic environment that remains depressed.
There is no growth, there is no growth in purchasing power and so all these effects accumulate.
 ~~~ We’ve announced 4,000 new jobs over the next 3 years, which is is still good news for employment in France.
It is clear that these 4,000 jobs will not replace all the departures, it is impossible to say yet how many departures there will be, but it is clear that overall the situation of employment in France, (and nobody is going to lose his job, it is very important to say), will be that at the end of this period we’ll have fewer French employees.
This is clearly the consequence of adaptation required by the company to a new setting, characterized by the coming of the 4th operator and an economic environment that is still depressed. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ The arrival of a 4th mobile competitor last January caused a haemorrhage of customers for the traditional operators.
What is the situation now? ~~~ Have you regained customers? ~~~ ”
Richard:
“ There was a loss of customers. ~~~ I would not say that it was a hemorrhage, there was some migration of customers.
If I take the figures of Orange, with a little more than 26 million mobile clients in France, in the first 2 quarters we lost about 600,000 customers.
600 thousand out of 26 million is not a haemorrhage. ~~~ 
Since the month of June we have been gaining again.
This means that we are not losing customers. ~~~ At the moment we are getting more than we lose, because there is always movement in both directions.
The true effect of the arrival of the 4th operator is not the loss of customers, it is the drop in prices.
Because the 4th operator, just like everywhere this has happened in Europe, has established a new standard on the market.
This is around 20 euros for a unlimited monthly phone and internet subscription.
A cheap Sim Card, with the customer free to buy the phone they want.
That’s the way I see the market going, with this new price standard, and compared to the previous situation, it means a big drop in income. ~~~ That is by far the biggest impact associated with the 4th operator. ~~~ ”
euronews:
“ Will the drop in prices from competition also hit investment? ~~~ ”
Richard:
“ Of course.
And here we must say some things: obviously, lower prices in the short term are helpful for the consumer and I understand that everybody sees this as a very positive move.
The problem is that we are in an industry of infrastructure. ~~~ Every year we need to invest, in maintainance and building the networks of today and tomorrow.
Today, our priority is bringing out ultra-mobile broadband, 4 G, 10 times faster.
It’ll be a whole new user experience, with much more enjoyable download speeds, and mobile internet access.
It’s really a spectacular improvement.
To be able to invest, as is expected from us, we must have the resources to do it and it is clear that we we give away today to consumers, we won’t have to invest in the coming years ” .
euronews:
“ Some time ago, France Telecom Orange was at the centre of an acute social crisis, with a rash of suicides amongst employees.
You have launched a program to address this.
What are the results? ~~~ ”
Richard:
“ When I took the job 3 years ago, the company was in the middle of a very deep, special crisis.
It wasn’t a crisis where there were demonstrations in the street, it was almost a kind of collective depression that had been generated by some very tough years after the dot-com bubble, roughly from 2000 on.
My first concern was really trying to find ways, paths, a dialogue that would calm the atmosphere and to offer a new deal for all our French employees.
We called it a new social contract as it was based on agreements that were negotiated and signed with the unions.
At the end that gave us a new set of rules for living together.
What is the balance sheet of 3 years?
I believe that unquestionably there’s been a net improvement of the climate.
We measure it with a study every 6 months of 4000 French employees, and it allows us to measure in a very detailed way the points that are improving and those where there is still progress to make.
So, what we can say now is that it’s going much better. ~~~ I think that we’ve found a real dialogue inside the company, but at the same time we should never take things for granted, there is still much to do and the upsurge in difficulties, the tensions facing today’s markets are a risk.
Stress can hit our employees from outside even if our managers have learned better. ~~~ 
You know, when you hear every day your competitors announce downsizing plans or worse, and you live in this climate, it is very stressing.
So I believe we must be particularly vigilant at this sort of moment, and stick strictly to the social contract we have in France. ~~~ This is what allowed us rebuild trust between the company and the men and the women who work for it, we don’t need to lose it today ” .
euronews:
“ A recent study put you in first place amongst CAC40 companies as best employer for women.
Is this also a consequence of your social policy? ~~~ ”
Richard:
“ To be honest, it’s a theme that is important to me and to which I’ve really been committed since I started as boss, but it is also a company tradition at Orange to be quite exemplary in this domain.
So, I am the heir to a strong tradition. ~~~ 
I am very proud Orange is France’s number-one blue-chip company for women, because I think it’s important.
It is a question of justice first, because today women are taking the place that they deserve and that is normal in all areas of society, including politics, for example. ~~~ However there is a long way to go in business, that’s for sure.
So this is an important subject to be continuously promoted and supported and I think that the role of the boss is also important.
They must set an example of best practice.
I’m happy to have this role and I’m keen to ensure it is applied and protected. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Iran’s nuclear saga has taken another turn, as the Deputy Director General of the IAEA declared on his return from Iran on Wednesday, that “ Iran is fully committed to resolving all outstanding issues ” . ~~~ 
Still, many observers look at this with scepticism.
Among them is Dennis Ross, President Obama’s former adviser on Iran and the Middle East who resigned from his post surrounded by controversy in November 2011. ~~~ Euronews’ Fariba Mavaddat spoke to him on the issue of nuclear weapons in Iran.
Fariba Mavaddat, euronews:
“Dennis Ross, you served three American presidents in the capacity of assistant and consultant on Middle Eastern affairs.
What if Iran has the weapon?”
Dennis Ross:
“If Iran has the weapon, then you can bet that their neighbours are going to get the weapon.
The idea that a region like the Middle East that is conflict laden, where there are a lot of local triggers for conflict, should now have all sorts of countries with nuclear weapons, is something that is bound to produce a nuclear war.
 ~~~ “This is not the Cold War where there are two countries where there’s some form of communication, where each side, in a sense, can balance out the other.
This is a region where you could have a local conflict that easily escalates very quickly.
 ~~~ “These are countries that don’t have perfect communication, they don’t have perfect intelligence you could have false positives.
Once you have a Middle East with lots of countries with nuclear weapons, the prospect of a nuclear war goes up very high.
That would be a catastrophe for the world.”
euronews: “If sanctions don’t work, would you resort to military action against Iran?”
Dennis Ross:
“It is certainly a possibility.
Let me put it this way: If Iran has nuclear weapons you’re going to live to rue the day because you’ll end up with a nuclear war in the Middle East, I think it is to everybody’s interest to avoid that catastrophe.”
euronews: “To what extent, Mr.
Ross, has your staunch support for Israel influenced the US administration’s policies on Iran and the Middle East as a whole?”
Dennis Ross:
“I don’t really think that is the point of departure for the administration’s policies on Iran.
The administration’s policies on Iran are governed by the fact that Iran is now the subject of six Security Council Resolutions calling on it to comply with its international obligations under the terms of the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty (NPT), 11 Board of Governor resolutions of the IAEA to do the same.
“So there’s the reality of Iranian behaviour and having to deal with Iranian behaviour, that is really the touch stone and the point of departure for the administration’s policy, and the kind of support and suggestions that I made in the context of the work I conducted for the administration.”
euronews: “You raised the question of the IAEA reports, now only on Wednesday the Deputy Director General of the IAEA said that: ‘Iran is fully committed to resolving all outstanding issues.’ So there is very little excuse for military intervention.”
Dennis Ross:
”Iran in response to this latest delegation, has committed itself to resolving these questions.
That is not the same as resolving them.
If the Iranians resolve the questions that will make everyone happy.”
euronews: “Is it possible that the West or America is using this Iranian half-baked nuclear programme as an excuse to undermine Iran’s power and influence in the region?”
Dennis Ross:
“This is not the US versus Iran; this is not some Europeans versus Iran; this is the international community versus Iran.
Iran is a country that ought to have certain standing in the world.
The fact that it doesn’t is due to the function of and behaviour of the Iranian government.
They can change that.”
euronews: “To what extent is your opinion against Iran and your conviction to military intervention in Iran influenced by your sympathy for Israel?”
Dennis Ross:
“I favoured the idea of trying to resolve this through diplomatic means.”
euronews: “You are losing your weight by trying to impose sanctions that have never worked, and will never work … and then what?”
Dennis Ross:
”You have the premise that sanctions have never worked.
I am not so sure that sanctions have never worked when you look at them historically.”
euronews: “Iran has been under US sanctions for 35 years and it’s become more powerful, more and more influential and richer.”
Dennis Ross:
”The sanctions that are being imposed now are dramatically different than the sanctions that were been imposed before.
The fact that you have seen the Iranian currency has devalued by half in the last six weeks, is something that indicates that the Iranians for the first time, the Iranian government for the first time, will see that they cannot have their cake and eat it too.
They have to make a choice.”
euronews: “Let’s imagine that Iran is after nuclear weapons.
What is big deal?
Pakistan has it. ~~~ Why not Iran?”
Dennis Ross:
“A country that engages in terrorism, a country that does not comply with responsibilities, is hardly hardly a country that ought to have nuclear weapons”
euronews: “What do you mean by ‘responsibilities’?”
Dennis Ross:
“I mean by ‘responsibilities’ that they have obligations under the terms of a treaty which they continue to evade.
Again, I come back, we are not inventing the idea that there are six Security Council Resolutions that call them, I’m not not inventing the 11 Board of Governor Resolutions of the IAEA.
How can it be that the international community is wrong and Iran is right?”
</text>
<text>
Billionaire Dmytro Firtash, with assets in mining, gas and media, is currently fighting extradition from Austria on an FBI warrant charging him with corruption and bribery.
He denies the charges and says they’re politically motivated.
The Ukrainian government is accused of getting unfair advantages from the previous Yanukovych administration.
He spoke to euronews’ Oleksandra Vakulina in Vienna.
Oleksandra Vakulina, euronews
Mr. ~~~ Firtash, welcome and thank you for talking to us. ~~~ Let me start by asking about your opinion on the current situation in Ukraine – economic and political
Dmytro Firtash
I think the situation is very difficult.
We’re facing extremely difficult challenges and we’ve wasted the opportunities we’ve had.
We see clearly now that in the 23 years of independence in Ukraine we did not do what had to be done and we haven’t learned the lessons.
 ~~~ So the results that we’re seeing today.
Firstly, the dire economic situation.
Secondly, the results of the last presidential and parliamentary elections did not offer the expected solutions to the problems.
The reforms are not implemented, there are no positive changes, and ultimately people are suffering, business is suffering, everyone’s suffering. ~~~ 
We have to change this situation, we have to right the wrongs of the last 23 years.
We have to do a lot in the next 23 years, we have to draw plans and outline solutions.
This is about constitutional reforms and economic reforms, and it’s a big task but it has to be done.
euronews
When you talk about wasted opportunities in the past and things that have to be done now, what concrete reforms do you have in mind?
Dmytro Firtash
I’m deeply convinced, and I don’t deny it, that Ukraine needs re-construction.
It can be some form of federation, or a Polish system, or a German or Austrian system, but it should settle the issue once and for all.
I am convinced that we should delegate more power to the regions.
Otherwise there will be no reconstruction and no modernisation of the country.
We shouldn’t debate or dwell too much on what we have today.
We should discuss what needs to be done.
We can all see what’s going on in the country now – it has virtually collapsed.
We are, in fact, basically bankrupt.
We can’t do anything, and the government sadly hasn’t implemented any reforms.
And of course the most important thing now is for the war to end, at least I hope so.
euronews
There are a number of reforms already initiated and announced by the government.
One of them is the reform of the energy sector.
A lot is being said lately about the problem of gas supplies.
Regarding this latest trend of deliveries of gas from Europe, is Ukraine relying on it too much?
Dmytro Firtash
Life teaches us that it’s important to be an expert in whatever you’re doing, and understand how things work.
Unfortunately, our government has quite a superficial understanding of the whole process and cannot appreciate fully the results of their actions.
They are not using all the tools at their disposal.
They totally misuse and waste their strong points, allowing themselves to become weak, and also creating problems for Europe.
Why?
Because we keep saying that we can live without Russian gas at all, and this it totally not true.
euronews
Not true?
Dmytro Firtash
I don’t believe those claims.
And we see yet more scandals in the last few days – now we buy gas, now we don’t.
We’re getting back to the situation we’ve been in before.
I think that we have to behave realistically, otherwise we’ll have the worst-case scenario when, sooner or later, Russia will hook Europe on the idea of the South Stream or some other stream pipeline.
Because they (Europeans) won’t want to become hostage to this constant stand-off.
I think such behaviour is not right.
euronews
Is there any third option?
Every time there’s mention of gas, what we hear is either Russia or Europe.
Is there anyone else?
Dmytro Firtash
There is no third option, you know.
Europe, Ukraine and Russia should sit down together and talk things through.
Whether we like each other or not we should maintain dialogue.
It was obvious, when Europe and Ukraine discussed their association, Russia’s interests shouldn’t have been ignored.
It was important for Europe to talk to Russia, and Ukraine should have done the same. ~~~ 
So what we see today is that the political part of the association agreement is in place but the implementation of the economic part is delayed for a year or two, and only now have they started talking to Russia anyway.
So what was all the fuss about?
Let’s all sit down and talk about everyone’s problems and reservations – what Russia wants, what Ukraine wants, what Europe wants. ~~~ 
Let’s have a frank and open discussion.
What we need is unity, one big common market.
And it doesn’t really matter whether we build it from Lisbon to the Far East or from the Far East to Lisbon.
euronews
I want to ask you one more question about gas supplies.
The Ukrainian economy minister was interviewed by euronews a few days ago in Kyiv, and among other things he was talking about dealing with Russia’s Gazprom.
He said that there are no intermediaries any more and that Ukraine deals directly with the company.
He also mentioned RosUkrEnergo, the company you controlled.
What would you say to the minister’s claims that dealings with Gazprom are much more straightforward and transparent now because the middleman has been eliminated?
Dmytro Firtash
Allow me to answer with a question of my own: what should happen when you cut out the middleman and everything is much more straightforward?
Well, at least you should expect guaranteed deliveries and a clearly set price, right?
And what have we got today?
Don’t get me wrong, I’m not exactly sure what the minister meant, I don’t want to criticise him, it wouldn’t be right.
But I can tell you that when RosUkrEnergo was in place there was never an issue of any threat to the stability of gas supplies.
Europe was getting its gas, the gas storage facilities in Ukraine were full and the price of gas for Ukraine was $179.
 ~~~ I don’t know what the economy minister was talking about but I would advise him to get his act together with the country’s budget for a start.
I really don’t understand what he means, and I’m certainly not ashamed of anything.
I never made any money (on gas) in Ukraine.
I made money outside of Ukraine but invested it only in Ukraine. ~~~ 
euronews
I can’t not ask you about the investigation in the US. ~~~ What stage is it at now?
Dmytro Firtash
First of all, you know I don’t give any comments on this matter – not because I don’t want to or am not prepared, but because my lawyers don’t allow me to.
All I can say is that neither I nor my group have ever done anything illegal.
I’m sure of it and we’ll prove it.
I am against the war and I don’t hide it.
I keep saying that what we need is a constitutional reform, that the three parties have to sit down and find solutions.
That means that I have a clear position.
euronews
Let’s imagine for a moment that the case against you is closed and all charges are dropped.
Would you go back to Ukraine? ~~~ Tomorrow or the day after?
Dmytro Firtash
I can tell you this – Ukraine is my home.
If I wanted to live in any other country, I could have done it on my own choice and volition a thousand times.
But I have never done that.
euronews
Do you have direct political ambitions?
Do you see yourself in politics – right in the heart of it, not behind the scenes?
Dmytro Firtash
No, I have never been involved in politics. ~~~ I’ve never had an ambition to become a politician or a government official.
Firstly, I don’t even know how to do it. ~~~ It’s not something close to my heart. ~~~ I love doing what I like.
I like business and that’s exactly what I’m doing.
</text>
<text>
NATO’s intervention in Libya may have resulted in the successful toppling of Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, but it also raised awkward questions about the alliance’s future.
Could it – and should it – carry out similar missions in the future?
 ~~~ Amid pressure to cut national defence budgets and protracted operations in Afghanistan, euronews spoke to the NATO Secretary-General, Anders Fogh Rasmussen.
 ~~~ Paul Hackett, euronews: ‘‘The Libya campaign has been deemed a success, the final outcome, but there were lots of questions asked about this campaign, about Europe’s ability to fight a war without US help.
It exposed a lot of frailties with European defence, didn’t it?’‘
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, NATO Secretary General:
‘‘I think (about) the positive stories about European leadership.
In fact, it was the first time in the history of our alliance that European allies and Canada took the lead – of course with strong support from the United States – but it is a significant step in the history of the alliance that such an operation could be conducted under European leadership.
And that was actually a response to a strong call from the Americans that the Europeans take on more responsibility and they stepped up to the plate.’‘
euronews: ‘‘Sure, but when the out-going former US Defence Secretary Robert Gates says NATO faces a ‘dim and dismal future’ if Europe doesn’t do enough, if it doesn’t do more, it’s not good is it? ~~~ He’s right, isn’t he?
Europe isn’t pulling its weight.
Rasmussen:
‘‘The Libya operations is an example that Europe can pull its weight and Europe has the will to do what is necessary when it is needed.
So that’s the positive story.
But having said that, it is of course a problem that we have seen an increasing gap across the Atlantic between America and Europe.
euronews: ‘‘That gap is going to get bigger isn’t it?
Barack Obama, at the beginning of this year, said America’s focus is going to switch to the Asia-Pacific region.
America doesn’t have any interest anymore in defending the periphery of Europe?
Rasmussen:
‘‘Actually, the Americans stated at the same time that they will remain committed to the transatlantic relationship and we shouldn’t be surprised that the United States will focus more on the Asia-Pacific region, taking into account the rise of emerging powers like China and India.
I think it’s very much for the Europeans themselves to demonstrate that they take the transatlantic alliance seriously.
euronews: “ What do they need to do now?
Rasmussen:
“ That’s exactly what I’m going to put a lot of focus on in the run up to the NATO summit in Chicago.
Realistically speaking we can’t expect a significant increase in the defence budgets in the coming years taking into account the economic austerity.’‘
euronews: ‘‘Well no, Britain recently announced it was going to make five billion pounds of cuts.
There are huge cuts, across Europe and in the US.
So what’s the solution?’‘
Rasmussen:
‘‘We have to make more efficient use of the resources available.
The key is what I call, ‘Smart Defence’, a smarter way of spending money, through pooling and sharing of resources, cooperating, helping each other, multi-national projects instead of purely national solutions.
That’s the way to do business in the future.’‘
euronews: ‘‘That’s easier said than done, isn’t it?
There will be a lot of defence ministers, defence departments. ~~~ They don’t want to lose sovereignty.
They’re not going to be willing to pool everything, the pooling that you are talking about.’‘
Rasmussen:
‘‘But we have good practical examples of ‘Smart Defence’.
The bi-lateral defence agreement between France and the United Kingdom is an excellent example of how two countries can work together, save money, and at the same provide the necessary military capabilities.’‘
euronews: ‘‘The Libya operation had a NATO flag on it, but it was very much a coalition of the willing – compared to Afghanistan.
How relevant was this mission to NATO’s future relationships with North Africa and the Middle East?
Rasmussen:
‘‘First of all, let me stress it was not a coalition of the willing, it was a NATO operation with the participation of partners.
And that’s a very important point.
euronews: “ Germany didn’t want take part though, did it?
Rasmussen:
“ Yes, but Germany participated through common funding systems, and in other ways actually.
So all 28 allies participated.
Some directly, some indirectly.
But all 28 allies participated.
And that’s a very important point. ~~~ It was not a coalition of the willing, it was a NATO operation.’‘
euronews: ‘‘But what does this mean for the Middle East?’‘
Rasmussen:
“ Exactly, I think what we have seen in North Africa and the Middle East will contribute to strengthening our partnership with countries in the region.
I think we should take this opportunity to strengthen our partnerships with countries in the region.
Some of them participated directly in our operation and we can build on that.’‘
euronews: ‘‘If NATO doesn’t intervene in Syria but does intervene in Iran – we’ve heard that Iran is threatening to block the Strait of Hormuz – what message is that going to send out to the Arab world?
It’s going to say that we’re just defending our oil interests, isn’t it?’‘
Rasmussen:
‘‘But let me stress, that NATO has no intention whatsoever to intervene, neither in Syria nor in Iran.
As far as Syria is concerned we do believe that a regional solution is the best way.
We appreciate the efforts demonstrated by the Arab League.
As far as Iran is concerned we support the international, political and diplomatic efforts to find a solution.’‘
euronews: If Iran does block (the Strait of Hormuz) and NATO is asked to do something, it will won’t it?
Rasmussen:
‘‘It’s a hypothetical question, and once again let me stress we have no intention whatsoever to intervene.
But of course we urge the Iranian leadership to live up to its international obligations, stop the enrichment programme and also allow free navigation in the Strait of Hormuz
euronews:
‘‘The Libya operation seriously undermined relations with Russia.
Where is this relationship going?
Is it just a political one or is anything fruitful going to come out of it?
Rasmussen:
‘‘We have our disputes with Russia, but these disputes should not overshadow the fact that during the last two and a half years we have seen significant progress in our relationship.
We have enhanced cooperation on Afghanistan, counter-narcotics, counter-terrorism, counter-piracy.
We decided in Lisbon in November 2010 to develop a true strategic partnership between NATO and Russia.
In concrete terms we have tried to develop cooperation on missile defence.
In that respect we haven’t seen as much progress … … ’‘
euronews:
‘‘How confident are you that you will get a deal in Chicago in May?’‘
Rasmussen:
‘‘I still think there’s a fair chance, but we have to work hard.’‘
euronews:
‘‘You need to make serious concessions to the Russians, don’t you?
You need to say that we’ll give you the guarantees that you are asking for, so that your deterrent won’t be undermined.’‘
Rasmussen:
‘‘The Russians have requested guarantees that our system is not directed against Russia.
It is not.
And the best way the Russians could get a guarantee would be to actually cooperate, so that they could see with their own eyes that our system is not directed at them.’‘
</text>
<text>
Taoiseach Enda Kenny has warned British Prime Minister David Cameron that quitting the EU would be “ catastrophic ” .
Kenny made his comments in an interview with euronews’ James Franey at the European Parliament in Strasbourg.
“ Britain was a driver of the Single Market. (It) is an important and fundamental element of the European Union and, in my view, it would be catastrophic were Britain to opt to leave the European Union, ” Kenny said.
“ I think if you were removed from outside that Single Market and have no influence on the conditions that apply there, I wouldn’t think that it would be in the interests of any particular country. ”
When asked by euronews whether any country should be allowed to ‘cherry-pick’ parts of EU membership, Kenny said: “ The same conditions apply for all members. And in theory, if you were to say ‘OK, you can revise membership for one country’ then you might have a lot of applicants as well (seeking the same treatment). ”
The Irish Prime Minister’s warning came as Cameron prepared to deliver his long-awaited speech on Friday in Amsterdam which will lay out how he wants to change Britain’s relationship with the EU.
Cameron has floated the idea of ‘repatriating powers’ from Brussels in an apparent bid to tame Eurosceptics inside his own party and tackle the rise of UKIP in the opinion polls.
Downing Street is particularly keen on wrestling back powers on justice, employment and policing issues.
But EU diplomats said that would require re-negotiating the bloc’s treaties, which they argued there is little prospect of as the EU grapples with the eurozone debt crisis.
The British Prime Minister will address diplomats and officials in Amsterdam on Friday morning.
Britain became a member of the European Economic Community, the forerunner to the EU, in 1973 despite rigid opposition from France.
</text>
<text>
After the French football team were knocked-out of the euro 2012 in the quarter final stages, manager Laurent Blanc stepped down to be replaced by Didier Deschamps with whom he had played during a golden era of French football.
Deschamps captained the side that won the 1998 World Cup, and Euro 2000 and now becomes the fifth coach of ‘les bleus’ in ten years.
After promising to be stricter with players he has so far seen two wins and an important draw in Madrid to leave France level on points with Spain at the top of group I ahead of the 2014 Brazilian World Cup. ~~~ 
But France’s recent good performance against the world champions has not silenced questions about the behaviour of some of its players.
 ~~~ In an exclusive interview with euronews, Didier Deschamps told us about his time as manager so far.
The French national team left the European Championships disappointed once again.
You arrived four months ago and things seem to be improving.
Are ‘Les Bleus’ reborn under Deschamps?
Didier Deschamps: Honestly, I don’t know if they are reborn, but we have a huge goal ahead of us, the Brazilian world cup, and we are in a good position to reach it.
We drew with Spain and we played a fantastic second half, I think this match gave more emotion and motivation to the French people.
They deserve it, for a long time they have not seen a moment like this.
euronews: What has changed since your arrival?
Didier Deschamps: Everything … no, I’m kidding.
We have a lot of strong individuals in the French national team, but we also need to create a strong team and team-spirit.
This new generation of players in France has the wrong mentality.
I’m trying to change things, but it is difficult, because they were not taught to deal with rigid rules and they don’t respect the shirt in the way they should.
Of course: some of them less so than others.
euronews: Is it only a problem with the players or is there something wrong with the organisation of the French Federation?
Didier Deschamps: The truth is that in France the players have a lot of freedom, more than in other countries.
The clubs and the leaders of the clubs need to have more authority.
euronews: Have you had specific talks with Menez, Nasri, Ben Arfa and M’Vila, the players called by the French Federation after the European Championships?
Didier Deschamps: Yes, I can call them, speak with them, sometimes explain my decisions and discuss my choices with them, but I’m not obliged to explain myself.
They should accept my choices and my decisions, even if they disagree with them.
euronews: Your national team won everything and the current national team has won nothing.
Do they have the right to have such big egos?
Didier Deschamps: Big egos are part of football, maybe some are bigger than others.
The ego can be positive if you transform it into an interior force, but it can be a huge problem as well.
I think the people around the players: the clubs and sometimes the press are guilty too.
The press make the player a phenomenon when he has just played well in two matches.
euronews: Can you tell us what kind of rules have you imposed since your arrival?
Didier Deschamps: The main rule to players is that each one of them give more to the team.
These players are accustomed to receiving more than they give and this is wrong.
They should feel privileged to be here, give the maximum, because they represent France and there are so many people who expect the best of them.
euronews: What should a player do during the season to get a place in the French national team?
Didier Deschamps: First of all, they should be competitive in their clubs, because I’m watching the matches all the time.
This is the first judgement, after that they shouldn’t behave in an unacceptable way.
euronews: This judgement has left Clichy, Nasri, Ben Arfa, Mexes, M’Vila and Malouda out of the national team?
Didier Deschamps: No, Clichy is still with us.
euronews: But he’s losing his place.
Didier Deschamps: The competition is strong.
In the same position we already have a player: Patrice Evra, who plays for Manchester United.
When the coach changes, it’s normal he calls some new players and changes the team a little bit.
In the case of Malouda, for example, he’s not playing at Chelsea either.
He’s training with the juniors.
euronews: But he played the last Euro tournament.
Didier Deschamps: Yes, but he hasn’t played since.
I need to put 11 players onto the pitch, the more difficult the choice is, the better it is.
euronews: But the cases of Nasri and Ben Arfa are different because they are playing a lot with their Premier League sides.
Didier Deschamps: Yes it’s true, but there are other players who are playing very well.
I need to choose a team, and until now I’ve chosen other players.
euronews: And M’Vila?
Didier Deschamps: M’Vila could potentially play with the national team, but after what happened, he’ll not wear the national shirt so soon, I’m sure about that.
euronews: Many French fans accuse you of being too rigid and critical with the players.
Do you agree?
Didier Deschamps: I don’t think so.
They asked me to be more strict and rigid, anyway, I’m not here looking for unanimity.
euronews: You were part of an unforgettable French team.
As captain you lifted a World Cup in 98 and a European Cup in 2000.
What differences are there between your national side and the current one?
Didier Deschamps: You know, it is always hard for those who arrive afterwards.
Before experiencing 98’, I experienced 94’ when we failed to qualify for the World Cup and during my generation people made comparisons with Platini’s generation.
They used to say, the Platini generation was the best and after that we won the World Cup in France.
It is never easy for a generation that comes after great moments and glories.
There are cycles: Brazil had a cycle, Spain is going though an extraordinary cycle, but it’s impossible for a team to keep the same level for 10 or 15 years.
euronews: What can this team achieve under Deschamps?
Didier Deschamps: Everything is possible, first of all we want to go to Brazil and then if all goes well, I may continue another two years to Euro 2016 in France.
euronews: The golden ball election is coming up, have you already decided your vote?
Didier Deschamps: I still need to vote, certainly it will be between Ronaldo and Messi.
The organisation should give two golden balls, but I know that’s impossible.
There are other Spanish players like Casillas, Xavi and Iniesta who deserve the award, they won everything, but it’s hard competing with these 2 players.
</text>
<text>
‘This time it’s different’, says the official slogan of the European Parliament for the European elections – but that is maybe nowhere more true than with the Eurosceptics.
The Dutch politician Geert Wilders has announced an alliance in the new parliament with other like-minded parties from other countries in order to “ wreck the EU from within ” .
And in the Netherlands he is leading the polls.
Wilders spoke with Olaf Bruns of euronews.
euronews: “ Now, what’s the point, Mr Wilders in running for a parliament which you’d prefer did not exist at all?
”
Geert Wilders: “ Well, as long as the parliament exists, well there should not only be one point of view heard, which is the sound of the europhiles in Brussels today.
”
euronews: “ In a nutshell, what’s your main criticism of the EU?
”
Wilders: “ It took the sovereignty of the Netherlands away.
Commissioners are in charge now, that nobody in the Netherlands knows, and worse nobody elected them.
As an example there is a lady from Sweden, a leftist, liberal commissioner, Mrs Cecilia Malmström, who is in charge of our borders now.
We cannot even change the way that we want to deal with immigration.
The European Union costs us a lot of money.
The Dutch are – per capita – the highest contributors to the European Union.
”
euronews: “ Your party is set to become the biggest in the Netherlands, and other Eurosceptic countries, in the run-up to the European election.
It is clear that Eurosceptic – Euro critic feelings are running high.
Now let’s just imagine your party and other parties would become an outright majority – what would you do?
”
Wilders: “ I would get rid of the European Union, besides the internal market.
I wish that the EU would have stayed how it started in the ’50s.
with economical cooperation, once again, maybe together with an internal market.
We want to – even if we in the Netherlands leave the EU – still have contact, have access to the internal market, we can only benefit from that.
I’m for the internal market, I’m for free trade, but it should be an economical union, it should not be, what it has become, unfortunately, a political union, a kind of political super-state.
”
euronews: “ That assumes that the EU does exist, as something that guarantees a kind of economic stability on the continent.
But if all richer member countries would follow your line of thought and leave, the internal market would be gone.
”
Wilders: “ I think, why shouldn’t we be able to keep working with an internal market without a political union?
”
euronews: “ In the more likely event of you and your allies being able to form a strong group in the new parliament – not win an outright majority – how would you proceed?
”
Wilders: “ I think that if we would have a good result, it will also be historical what will happen in the respective countries.
Imagine, [Britain’s] UKIP gaining more than 30 percent of the popular vote, or my party 20 to 25 percent, or the party of Ms Le Pen [the Front National] in France getting 20 to 30 percent – it will not only change the European Parliament, but it will be an earthquake in the domestic politics in Europe.
”
euronews: “ You have been preparing for these European elections for a long time, by forging an alliance with other euro-critique parties all over Europe – and your main partner here will be Marine Le Pen from France’s Front National.
But is that really a partner for you?
I mean it’s a party which views diverge totally from yours on social topics like gay-marriage, but which is also still seen by many as anti-Semitic.
”
Wilders: “ I don’t think they are anti-Semitic.
I wouldn’t have tried to work together with the party when her father, Jean Marie Le Pen, was still in charge and I think the party has changed since Marine Le Pen has taken charge.
Everybody is asking me the question why there are so many differences with other parties?
Look for instance at the Christian Democrats, our own Christian Democrats in Holland, but also the party of Angela Merkel, the ‘Bundeskanzler’ of Germany has worked for years with Mr Berlusconi, the man from the Bunga-Bunga-parties!
”
euronews: “ But are there limits, are there Eurosceptic parties in other countries you would not be prepared to work with?
”
Wilders: “ Off course, we will not work with parties that are proud of or at least advocate racism and anti-Semitism, for instance the Jobbik party in Hungary, or the British National Party in the UK.
But I’m more ambitious than only working with Miss Le Pen, I would also want to work together in a group with Mr Farage.
I really respect him, from the UKIP party, he keeps the door open to my party, but he’s very hesitant, if not negative about working with the Front National.
I hope that after the elections, there will be even more room for him and other parties to form a stronger group, than is in the news today.
”
euronews: “ You mentioned Marine Le Pen, you also mentioned Nigel Farage, both of them had, a couple of weeks ago a bit of a showdown with Farage who accused her, not personally but her party, of still – I quote – carrying “ prejudice and anti-Semitism ” .
You might not share his assessment, but isn’t that a perfect illustration of what many think: that the Eurosceptics will just not be able to overcome their differences and will be mainly busy fighting each other in the end?
”
Wilders: “ Well, I hope that’s not true.
It would be a very sad thing if at an historical moment, where the Eurosceptic parties will win, that we would not be able to overcome some differences that – I will not ignore that – that do exist.
”
euronews: “ On the evening of the local elections in the Netherlands, in March, you came out in front of a crowd of supporters in the Hague and asked them if they wanted – “ fewer or more Moroccans ” in their city.
And the crowd answered by shouting “ fewer, fewer, fewer ” .
Now, you are known as a harsh critic of Islam, but you always said, it’s against the religion, it’s not against the people.
Now the question here is, haven’t you crossed a red line, isn’t it now against the people?
”
Wilders: “ No, because I mentioned Moroccans because Moroccans are over-represented enormously in the Dutch crime statistics, more than 60 percent of Moroccan youth under the age of 23 have been arrested by the Dutch police.
They are in general, when it comes to violent street crime, 20 times more frequently arrested for many crimes.
”
euronews: “ But if a given society has a problem with members of one particular group, is it wise for a politician to ostracise the whole group?
”
Wilders: “ You know, it’s wise to tell the truth, I did not invent the fact that people from Morocco are over-represented in the statistics.
”
euronews: “ But is that high rate of crime because these people are Moroccan – or is that also because they are unemployed?
”
Wilders: “ I’m not a psychologist or sociologist, I don’t care why people are criminal, I know the numbers of them are criminals and I want tough penalties.
”
euronews: “ But is it understandable to you that Moroccans who are not criminal have difficulties to swallow what you are saying?
”
Wilders: “ Moroccans who are here in the Netherlands and are not criminal have nothing to fear from me or my party.
As a matter of fact I know that the majority of the Muslims even in the Netherlands are law-abiding people, but I am a politician and somebody in Holland should state the facts, and the facts are that Moroccans are over-represented enormously.
And almost half of the Dutch population agrees with me, whether you like it or not.
”
</text>
<text>
Iker Casillas and Xavi Hernandez, icons of Real Madrid and Barcelona and also heroes of the Spanish national team, were jointly awarded the Prince of Asturias Award for Sports in recognition for their glittering careers and humanistic values.
Together, they took some time out of their busy schedule to talk to Euronews about their strong relationship.
Euronews: You have taken a short break from your club and national duties to receive this award – an award that recognises not only your sporting careers but also your personality and your solid friendship to each other.
Xavi Hernandez: I’m very happy because this award has an special meaning for me.
Not only for the prestige of it, but also for being able to be awarded it with somebody who has been my friend for a long time, even before we became professional players.
It is a very happy day to be able to enjoy this with Iker.
Euronews: Iker, Is it complicated to maintain this friendship for all these years whilst in the middle of the media storm that surrounds the bitter rivalry between Real Madrid and Barcelona?
Iker Casillas: ‘‘I don’t think so.
As Xavi says, we have grown up together.
We have reached a professional level with similar careers.
Now all we have to do is to keep our clubs happy, Barcelona and Real Madrid, and of course the Spanish national team too.’‘
Euronews: How much of this award can be attributed to the success the National team, Barcelona and Real Madrid?
Xavi: ‘‘It comes from all of them.
We came through the youth ranks in Barcelona and Real Madrid.
Our parents and family and also the Spanish National Team all played a part in our success.
We are both from a generation of Spanish football players who have been lucky in winning the European championships twice and one World Cup.
Therefore, this prize belongs to more people than just ourselves.’‘
Iker Casillas: ‘‘Winning so many things with the Spanish national team is of course a plus.
Obviously, to get titles with Real Madrid and Barcelona too.
All that coupled with the way people have enjoyed our success with the national team is the principle factor in why we jointly won this prestigious award, it’s a proud moment for both of us.’‘
Euronews: Because of increased tensions between Catalonia and Spain, Xavi, do you think politics played any role at all in the award?
Xavi: ‘‘I don’t think so.
This is sport and it is an award which recognises many years of friendship despite the football rivalry.
Our career is important too: we have won a lot of titles with the Spanish National Team and with our clubs. ~~~ I don’t see any political-related issues.’‘
Euronews: You both speak about the Spanish National Team.
Everybody praises Spain.
Do you think the country’s football players – whose price tags are a lot higher than previous years – have benefited from the golden age of Spanish football?
Iker Casillas: ‘‘I have no doubt.
It will be difficult to repeat the Spanish national team’s golden era of many titles, but we hope it will happen again.
Not everybody is lucky enough to win back to back European titles and a World Cup, in fact only the our national team has done it.
The important titles are a result of a fusion of good players and coaches.’‘
Euronews: I’m sure that you both have a good place to put the award, but when people like yourselves have won almost all there is to win, where do you find your motivation?
Perhaps the Golden Ball award?
Xavi: ‘‘We belong to a collective sport, in which the most important thing is to win titles: the World Cup, the Confederations Cup with the national team, the league, the Champions League with our clubs…all this motivate us.
We are here because of good team work, this is the main reason why we have won this individual award.’‘
Euronews: If Iker Casillas could have voted, would he have voted for Xavi?
Iker Casillas: ‘‘Yes because he symbolises the Spanish National Team.
He’s a sportsman held in high regard… I would have definitely voted him.’‘
Euronews: Xavi, I suppose that you would say the same about Iker.
Xavi: ‘‘Honestly, I would, because he is a great footballer, captain and guy.
We have known each other for many years and I would have no hesitation in voting for him.’‘
Euronews: Let’s change the topic now… Is Real Madrid’s La Liga title race over due to Barcelona’s lead or is it still too early?
Xavi: ‘‘It is too early.
We have a very good lead but the league is very long.
It is not at all done yet.’‘
Euronews: Is the Champions League between Real Madrid and Barcelona or will there be a surprise, like last year?
Xavi: ‘‘We will see about that, but playing against Real Madrid again would be fine with me.
When Barcelona play Real Madrid the matches are very special because the historic rivalry.’‘
Euronews: An all Spanish final between Real Madrid and Barcelona would be amazing…
Iker Casillas: ‘‘It would be good because both teams would be in the final on merit.
As Xavi says, last year we saw many Real Madrid – Barcelona showdowns and this is good for football as people look forward to these matches.’‘
Euronews: You have almost secured qualification for the 2014 World Cup but the recent draw against France has left you with a must-win game in París to lock down top spot.
Iker Casillas: ‘‘Nobody said it would be easy.
I think rivals prepare themselves more when they play against the World and European Champions.
France played a serious and clinical match and I think the draw was fair.’‘
Euronews: Lance Armstrong won the Prince of Asturias Award many years ago.
What are your thoughts about the doping-related controversy surrounding him?
Xavi: ‘‘I have read that is not possible to strip him of the award.
It is not the sport we play so we are out of this controversial argument.
Those kind of issues are not frequent in football.
With this said, however, all my respect to Armstrong.’‘
Euronews: There are some cyclists who complain about sports, like football, because it has fewer doping controls than cycling.
They say that there is a higher tolerance in other sports.
Iker Casillas: ‘‘I don’t think so.
In football controls are done by the Consejo Superior de Deportes, the Spanish Federation, UEFA, FIFA, our clubs… We have controls too but unlike cycling there aren’t any cases of doping.’‘
</text>
<text>
Serge Rombi: “ Hello and welcome.
We’re with Antonio Tajani, a vice-president of the European Commission and Commissioner for Industry and Entrepreneurship. ~~~ Hello.
”
Antonio Tajani: “ Hello everyone.
”
Serge Rombi: “ Factories are closing, unemployment is increasing, SMEs (Small and Medium-sized Enterprises), aren’t surviving the economic crisis.
Is it all completely unavoidable or can we get out of it?
”
Antonio Tajani: “ We have to get out of it.
We’re committed to putting the real economy at the centre of economic policies.
We have made mistakes in the past, by only putting finance and services at the centre.
We pushed industry and enterprise into a corner.
But we have to do exactly the opposite: put industry and enterprise at the centre and use finance to help the real economy.
”
Serge Rombi : “ It’s urgent because some sectors are very badly affected, I am especially thinking of the automobile sector.
The great majority of European manufacturers have really suffered in this crisis.
Carlos Ghosn, the CEO of Renault, said a few days ago at the opening of the Paris Motor Show: ‘If things go on like this, Renault could disappear.’ ”
Antonio Tajani: “ I am working on an action plan to help the automobile sector.
We are going to increase the money committed in our financial plans to 1.5 billion euros for research and innovation in the ‘green’ car sector.
Green cars will also be at the centre of our new industrial policy.
So we will be putting everything into trying to meet the challenge of helping certain sectors, for example, SMEs.
I’m thinking of the 23 million SMEs which are the powerhouse of our economy.
We have to help them create new jobs.
If every SME created just one job, we would have 23 million new opportunities in Europe for our young people.
So we have to reinforce innovation, competitiveness, and internationalisation in SMEs.
”
Serge Rombi: “ We’ll come back to SMEs in a moment.
Another concrete example in the industrial sector is steel.
In France, Italy, Finland, and Spain the sector is very badly affected.
How can we reverse this?
”
Antonio Tajani: “ We are working on it, with the unions, management, and the European Parliament.
I am going to present an action plan favouring the steel sector before next summer, laying out what Europe can do to reinforce this crucial sector.
Of course, there is a problem of remaining competitive with Chinese and other companies in Asia.
We need a good strategy, a real action plan to defend this sector, which is crucial to our economy.
”
Serge Rombi: “ So we can expect an action plan next year?
”
Antonio Tajani: “ Of course.
”
Serge Rombi: “ You have been talking about off-shoring. ~~~ A few days ago you said in an interview that the wind was changing.
On what concrete facts do you base this opinion?
”
Antonio Tajani: “ This situation is forcing us to protect industry.
We have to prevent the loss of our industries if we want to beat the crisis.
We cannot simply ask our citizens to make sacrifices.
We cannot just talk about reducing public debt.
We have to draw up a proper strategy.
That is why the European Commission has decided to prepare one.
So the aim is to have 20% of GDP coming from industry before the end of 2020.
It will be a real strategy to reinforce industry, and try to regain the position we occupied a few years ago. ~~~ Industry was generating 20% of GDP a few years ago.
So we need a new strategy, but not to recreate the same industries as we had 20 years ago.
We have to try for a new type of industrial policy, highlighting our quality and meeting the challenges from China, India, Russia, the United States, and Brazil on quality.
We can’t win on quantity but we have an opportunity to win thanks to the European network.
”
Serge Rombi: “ We’ll finish with SMEs.
I’ll put myself in the place of an European entrepreneur today – we meet a lot of them on Euronews.
They are confronted with many obstacles: administrative burdens, sometimes corruption, many difficulties.
They feel powerless.
There are also problems of bad debts, which is a real problem for SMEs.
On these precise points, how would you reassure them, re-energise them?
”
Antonio Tajani: “ We have launched a poll asking entrepreneurs to describe the ten biggest obstacles they come across in Europe.
And we’ll take concrete steps based on the results.
We are already working on better regulations for SMEs.
We are also working to reduce the administrative burden.
My aim is to make it possible to start a new company in three days for only 100 euros.
And then we want to ease access to credit.
We organised a forum for SMEs to explain to them how they can access financing.
And then there is the European Directive on late payments, to be applied in all Member States before the end of March 2013.
SMEs will have to be paid within 30 to 60 days maximum, otherwise there will be an 8% penalty.
All Member States will have to do it.
So here’s a message from Europe to entrepreneurs and company employees, because if small companies have to wait a year for payments, they die and with them die tens of thousands of jobs.
”
Serge Rombi: “ One last question.
It is European SME Week and I want to start my own business, to become an entrepreneur, and I’m lucky enough to be talking to the Vice President of the European Commission, and the Commissioner for Industry and Entrepreneurship.
What sector would you advise me to try?
”
Antonio Tajani: “ I think the new economy.
I would suggest space, or tourism, or nano-technology, biotechnology, the most modern sectors in which Europe can win.
I mean it, tourism and space: there’s a big European Galileo project involving 30 satellites before the end of 2020 – the satellites are in orbit but the services will be in different fields: agriculture, transport, health, security, fishing.
These are sectors where it is possible to do well and earn a good living.
”
Serge Rombi: “ Antonio Tajani. ~~~ Thank you.
”
</text>
<text>
The former head of the Arab League, Amr Moussa, has been talking to euronews reporter Mohammed Shaikhibrahim about the current unrest in Egypt. ~~~ 
The 75-year-old led the Arab League until he stepped down in mid-2011 to run as a candidate in Egypt’s presidential election.
Mohammed Shaikhibrahim: “ Amr Moussa, you helped form the National Front for the Salvation of the Revolution, or the National Rescue Front, a political alliance of 35 groups.
What was the idea behind forming it?
”
Amr Moussa: “ The front co-ordinates and works with all groups, parties and politicians who have the same thoughts, think in the same way.
That is within the framework of what we can do within Egypt in the very bad conditions which we are experiencing now.
The beginning of the crisis was the Constitutional Declaration which was issued on November 21.
It was rejected by the opposition in Egypt because it is considered to be a move against democracy.
”
euronews: “ Do you think that there is a premeditated intention by the Muslim Brotherhood to take full control of the state?
”
Amr Moussa: “ Any party which wins an election aims to put its supporters in positions of power.
That is understandable, it is the case in Egypt and it happens whether here or in any other state as in America.
But there is a difference between putting your supporters in those positions or trying to hide or change the face of the entire state.
”
euronews: “ Why don’t you, the opposition give the president a chance to achieve his programme?
”
Amr Moussa: “ We accept this, it is one of his rights to have a chance.
We are just citizens bound together in different political parties.
But he, the president, is the authority, the person who makes the decisions.
We didn’t challenge his authority, we only oppose some of his policies which have appeared in the constitutional referendum.
We don’t want to restrict him, on the contrary we, the opposition, are ready to provide assistance.
I am one of his opponents and I am ready to offer help to make the democratic project, whether with a president from the Muslim Brotherhood or not.
”
euronews: “ The Egyptian president invited you to take part in national dialogue.
Why did you not respond?
”
Amr Moussa: “ It is not the type of dialogue we want or require.
We want to look specifically at topics that I mentioned earlier, not a general invitation to speak or make statements.
We want a reunion, this is what we want, but that should come after we sit down and finish talking on the specific problems which have arisen.
We didn’t say that we are against the national dialogue; the principle of dialogue is acceptable.
But this speedy way of putting things in front of the opposition and then acting and deciding as quickly as possible to accept them, this has become a pattern.
We have not had enough time to consider these things.
”
euronews: “ Opposition supporters are now demanding to bring down the President.
Is that your demand?
”
Amr Moussa: “ The National Rescue Front has not called for him to go and has not considered it.
The subject is outside the framework of our work.
But there are voices demanding that he go; we heard that from the chants during demonstrations.
There are people who have are in despair and any analysis of the subject with them is to no avail.
”
euronews: “ Even though you reject the constitutional referendum, a large section of the opposition did participate in the referendum?
”
Amr Moussa: “ I am one of those who rejects the constitutional referendum.
There were two opinions – to boycott it or to take part and vote no. ~~~ The majority decided to vote and say no.
And I said that before the opposition’s decision to choose to vote no.
The participation and opposition is very important to build democracy if we want Egypt to move forward.
The most important thing is the participation, isn’t that within the rules of the game?
So we should agree.
But If the opposition is pushed into a corner, or there are matters which affect the country badly, then there will a stronger reaction than in the past and I hope everyone will understand that.
The whole world and Egypt will not tolerate my brother Mohamed Mursi.
”
euronews: “ Mr Moussa, who governs Egypt now: is it the Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, or the leader of the Muslim Brotherhood as the opposition claims?
”
Amr Moussa: “ I think that the Muslim Brotherhood are governing, but President Mohamed Mursi among their leaders is sitting in his office waiting for orders.
I imagine this, but I do not have a degree in the management methods of the Muslim Brotherhood.
However there is a trend that probably the majority party of the Muslim Brotherhood – in the name of freedom, justice and the head of state- rule together.
”
</text>
<text>
The European Union’s policy towards Gaza and the Palestinian Authority’s attitude to the conflict in Syria are just two of the topics raised in an interview with Mahmoud al-Zahar.
He is a co-founder of Hamas and a member of its leadership in the Gaza Strip.
He is also considered one of its more stubborn hard-liners.
He talked with euronews reporter, Mohammed Shaikhibrahim.
euronews: “ Why have you rejected the Doha Agreement?
Hamas inside Palestine had many reservations about it, despite the approval of the agreement by the President of the Political Bureau of Hamas.
” ~~~ Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ First, the agreement made in Cairo over four years ago said we needed to form a national unity government, which would not include members of Hamas or Fatah, or even from other Palestinian factions.
That is the first point in the Doha agreement.
“ The agreement was for a neutral government to hold free and fair elections.
There was pressure from the United States of America and Israel not to form a government of national unity.
They want a government that accepts the Quartet’s conditions, which are not acceptable to Hamas because of great prejudice against the Palestinian people.
“ In other words, the Doha agreement had shortcomings in it which means it cannot guarantee the integrity of the election, Abu Mazen, that is Mahmoud Abbas the President of the Palestinian Authority, would have no part to play in such elections. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Why do you refuse Mahmoud Abbas the chance to be president of the transitional government?
” ~~~ Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ Because Abu Mazen is in charge of security cooperation with Israel and responsible for the conduct of elections. ~~~ He is responsible for the arrests of members of Hamas , for the confiscation of money, and for cutting back freedoms, so how can he be objective while ensuring the election results? ~~~ ”
euronews: “ After the signing of the Doha agreement, there appeared to be disagreements between the Hamas leadership at home and the Hamas leadership abroad.
You complained that Khaled Meshaal when he signed the agreement in Doha didn’t consult fully with the organisation. ~~~ ”
Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ As I have already said I don’t want to talk about this issue, because it has nothing to do with what happens in Gaza.
” ~~~ euronews “ Do you receive financial and military support from Iran?
” ~~~ Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ We receive all forms of support from them and the entire Arab and Muslim world.
Anyone who wants to give to us, we take. ~~~ We are weak and our Israeli enemy is a nuclear power. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ If Iran was attacked by Israel or the United States of America, what would be the position of Hamas?
” ~~~ Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ We are against any aggression against any Arab or Muslim, but Iran is a strong country and has the ability to defend itself.
It has all the means by which to protect its borders.
If Iran was seen to be an easy target Israel would have already attacked.
euronews: “ Let’s be clear. ~~~ If Iran was attacked, would Hamas remain silent or take military action. ~~~ ”
Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ I will not answer that question.
” ~~~ euronews: “ Looking at what is happening in Syria at the moment does Hamas support the Syrian regime or the Syrian opposition which is demanding the departure of the Syrian president Bashar al-Assad and an end to his regime in the country?
” ~~~ Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ We are not a regional power with impressive international influence.
We want a strong Syria. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ But Ismail Haniyeh announced weeks before in Cairo that Hamas was supporting the Syrian Revolution.
That came as a big surprise and a major change in the strategy of Hamas?
” ~~~ Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ Let me correct this issue, he said we are in agreement with the demands of the Syrian people, and in fact the Syrian government says it is willing to meet the demands of the Syrian people. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ So do you still support the Syrian regime or not?
” ~~~ Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ I think I answered that more than three times. ~~~ You’re determined to get an answer.
” ~~~ euronews: “ I am trying to establish if there is still a solid relationship with the Syrian regime, an alliance that still exists. ~~~ ”
Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ I think my answer to your question is clear, very clear!!
euronews: “ So why did Hamas leave Syria at the start of the Syrian Revolution? ~~~ ”
Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ The decision to leave was an individual one and not a departure from the political strategy.
” ~~~ euronews: “ How do you assess the EU’s policy towards what is happening in Gaza since the Hamas movement has been in control there? ~~~ ”
Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ Let me correct you, the movement is not controlling, but we govern according to the results of the election and because the West’s policy is against the development of the Islamic policy, it is described as controlling.
We must govern in Gaza and in the West Bank and Jerusalem, because that is the results of the elections.
“ The West is again being hypocritical and against the Muslim world and Islamic influences, in particular it doesn’t want to accept the results of free and fair elections, which all the world saw were free and fair.
“ I would like to ask those people in the West a series of questions, and I’m sure they know the answers but do not dare to answer any of them.
“ The first question is this.
Did it belong to Israel?
Or was it the land of the Palestinian Arab, Muslim?
That’s a question to which I want them to give me an answer.
“ The return of the Jews, after 3,000 years to establish a state because their ancestors were living there, does the West accept what is called the right of return?
Does it accept the right of return policy?
“ So let us return to Spain again because we left in 1492 and called for the re-occupation of Britain, India, and Arab and Muslim nations, and called for re-occupation by France of Syria, Lebanon, Algeria,
“ If you ask the French, what they think of the occupation they will say its illegal.
And what about the Nazi’s occupation of France, it is illegal of course and the resistance by Charles de Gaulle’s followers was seen as action by warriors for freedom, but they will not talk about the Israeli occupation of Palestine in the same way, because of their hypocrisy. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ What does Hamas expect after the revolution in Egypt, after what happened in Libya and Tunisia and what is going on now in Syria?
” ~~~ Mahmoud al-Zahar: “ The Hamas movement is Islamist, we have the same policy towards what is happening in all of these countries, the same beliefs, the movements which are taking power in Egypt, in Libya in Tunisia and Morocco and also in Yemen.
 ~~~ “ We expect the leaders to be elected by democratic means who will represent the people on the street. ~~~ The leader will support Hamas’ position, and refuse and reject the occupation and aggression within the Palestinian territories.
I see a good future for Hamas. ~~~ ”
</text>
<text>
Martin Schulz, the recently elected President of the European Parliament has been speaking with euronews about the public’s perception of Europe, as well as its accomplishments and its failures.
With eurosceptics quick to question the value and cost of the EU, the 56-year-old German MEP faces one of the biggest challenges of his career.
Rudolph Herbert, euronews: “ My first question is: for two years the governments of the European Union have been struggling to find a solution to the debt crisis.
Do you think the public’s perception of Europe has become a problem? ~~~ ” ~~~ Martin Schulz:
“ I don’t think this is the case but I do believe there are doubts concerning the effectiveness of the European Union and there is good reason for this.
Take the European Council for instance, which is comprised of the heads of state and governments and is a part of the European Union.
It has been headed by Van Rompuy for two years and we thought, this will solve the problems!
But the problems haven’t been solved, on the contrary they have been delayed or decisions haven’t been made.
The consequence of this is that there has been a huge loss of trust and this concerns us, the European Parliament and the Commission.
euronews: “ What should be done in order to regain the confidence of Europe’s citizens?
Martin Schulz: ~~~ “ A simple rule should be observed. ~~~ You should say what you do and you should do what you say!
But then what happens?
I’ll make it short – in spring 2010 it was said that there was no money for Greece but then three months later, we were told there was money but only temporarily.
Three months later again it was permanent but without a contract amendment.
Then three months after that, the contract was amended and that should have been the end of it; but every time a solution is agreed, it changes. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ In the past the number of European citizens taking part in European elections has continuously decreased.
Do you think this will change?
How can it be fixed?
” ~~~ Martin Schulz: ~~~ “ Yes, I believe, this will change.
My opinion is different from those people who believe that the numbers will go down again at the next elections.
I don’t believe that.
We are talking about European politics in all the countries at the same time. ~~~ Up to now, this hasn’t happened and now because of a fear of the crisis and partly because of wrong decisions, there is a negative connotation of European elections.
But for the very first time we are dealing with a real European public.
 ~~~ “ Secondly, according to the Lisbon Treaty, for the next election of the President of the European Commission, the results of the European elections will be taken into consideration.
Then, I assume that the parties, the major European parties, will compete with one, pan-European candidate for the election of the President of the Commission.
Then people will be in competition with each other for the post, as will their respective programmes, which is something that has never happened in European elections until now. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ Talking about the President, we have a President of the European Council and at the same time a President of the Council of the European Union.
As you said yourself, we also have a President of the European Commission.
Don’t you think, that it’s difficult for a lot of people to distinguish between them and to know who exactly is responsible for what in the Europe?
Martin Schulz:
“ Yes, that really is the case. ~~~ Many people just don’t understand and so we need more clarity and transparency.
There is the suggestion, which has been made by Van Rompuy and Barroso, to merge the posts of the President of the Commission and of the President of the European Council.
That would mean that the President of the Commission would also preside over the meetings of the political leaders and the heads of state and governments and I think it’s reasonable to consider it.
 ~~~ “ As I said before, the President of the European Commission, who will be a kind of head of government in Europe, should be elected by the European Parliament because then the citizens know to whom their vote is going. ~~~ So if you wanted a left-wing President of the Commission, you’d vote for a party on the left.
If you wanted a right-wing one, you’d vote for a right-wing party. ~~~ So you always know exactly what is happening with your vote.
” ~~~ euronews: “ About 80 percent or even more of the laws that are currently valid in the member states, are being passed by the European Parliament.
Yet this Parliament is hardly recognised by the public.
Why is that?
Martin Schulz:
“ You’re right, the public perception of the European Parliament is disproportionate to our real competencies.
I would say that it’s quite easy to explain.
So, when a law is made here in Brussels it is discussed in Germany by the German Bundestag (Parliament), because Germany debates its implementation, the voters get the impression that they’ve made the law in Berlin.
They didn’t know that the whole law already existed before.
It is the duty of the President of the Parliament – my duty – to make sure, amongst other things, that our work becomes more visible and heard.
I try hard to do that. ~~~ ”
euronews: “ You also said that you wanted to strengthen the role of the European Parliament.
How do you propose to do that?
” ~~~ Martin Schulz: ~~~ “ By making it clear for the public that the place for controversial debates, as well as for clear decisions in Europe is within our parliament.
I’ll give you an example – Viktor Orban and his government in Hungary, whatever your position is on this subject, it is clear that every country in Europe is talking about the current situation in Hungary.
” ~~~ euronews: “ What other goals do you have as President?
What else do you want to accomplish?
” ~~~ Martin Schulz: ~~~ “ I think, that over the next two and a half years, bringing the European Parliament into the spotlight will be a big accomplishment.
If necessary, that could even happen through conflict, with the cooperation of other institutions.
But my political experience also tells me that voters are particularly interested in controversial discussions.
euronews: “ You’ve been a member of the Parliament since 1994.
Looking back, what in your opinion have been the most important achievements in Europe over the past few years?
Martin Schulz:
“ I think enlargement.
When the 10 states joined the European Union on 1 May 2004 – not including Malta and Cyprus – together with the countries of middle and eastern Europe, we had to overcome the artificial and decade-long separation of the continent which really belongs together, culturally and politically.
That is an historical achievement which cannot be praised enough. ~~~ 
“ I also think, though it may be controversial, that the introduction of the euro will protect Europe in the long term, especially in relation to the competitive pressure coming from other, rising regions of the world.
Defending our social model also relies on a strong currency.
That’s why I think that these two things; the enlargement and the euro, are the big achievements of Europe.
euronews: “ As for the failures, what do you think hasn’t worked?
Martin Schulz:
“ To convince the citizens, that Europe doesn’t take anything away from them and that it actually gives them something.
Only lately have I understood that national identity and regional identity is very important to people.
And this is no bad thing at all!
What’s bad about having an Italian identity?
What’s bad about having a Finnish identity?
The many identities of our people are the richness and the wealth of Europe. ~~~ Different cultures are the great heritage of our European continent. ~~~ ”
</text>
